Class 1

 I'm back. Okay. So now uh it's called the DSS set. So it's one kind of it's called the full prom is the uh D for decision S is for support S for system and then for agro technology transfer transfer so it's one kind of um new model. So it's prop based simulation model. Okay. So it's uh basically there are the lot of things we can do using it such as prop simulation. It's a one kind of prop simulation model used uh to basically we can use it for simulated growth. We can also use for um what

then yield of prof we can identify and also identify for um different condition. Okay. Different condition suppose different condition soil uh weather or management. Okay. Accurate simulation of the crop yield is strong for the yield forecasting. We can also yield forecasting using that. Okay. But uh it records some data suppose weather data soil profile data management data. So different types of profilical data. Okay. So this one kind of model as well as we can also use another model called the first.

So W for uh world world food studies studies model. So it purpose for the different types of prop model widely used for the regional yield forecasting or crop monitoring and good uh we can easily identify. So now how I can use this set and waffles this type of model. So for that uh okay so here you can see this is the one kind of this set. So this you can simply download this software from here and you can check all of information about the det. So for for this is the new version of the tet. Okay. And for the simply

download. Okay. And if you check uh the desert here I already Okay. So first of all you need to simply registration. Okay. For the registration they send you a Gmail uh Gmail inbox is sending the uh in link. So for that you simply click on the link. Then we can find out this type of things. You can simply apply all of information and purpose to use the this software. After that you can simply submit your request. Okay. So just click on the submit your request. Then after some time you can see you

just send the instruction to your to your email. So after that they'll send you the uh instruction how to download this software. Okay. So simply go to this link deset. Okay. This is the link. So from this link you can get the uh download. You can see the download request your own copy of DET. Okay. Click on here and further you can simply put your you can see put your email address and confirm email and then I am not robot then submit. Okay. Then they send this uh this type of link. Okay. You can get this type of message email

configure confirmation. Then simply click on here then put the information. Okay. For the purpose okay so then you can simply send the email. Then after few hours or after few days they send you the uh software link. Okay. in your email then simply download this full model data and you can also use it for the different types of uh soil weather or water management or the simulated the crop growth or development yield crops. So this type of we can easily identify using the D set okay decision support

system for acro technology transfer. So it's very helpful okay and you can check the YouTube channel also there okay for this software they also create this type of YouTube channel. So you can also get the lot of information from this YouTube channel. So you also try to explore this YouTube channel also and there also provide some guideline how to use the different types of you can see the soil data files how to use. So how this is the basic guideline how to download and install. So you also follow this YouTube

YouTube channel then you can easily get lot of information and how to uh use this type of tool. Okay then you can get the idea from here. So also try to follow this link I also send in the Google class also try to check then you can easily download and also just get this type of tutorial and face any problem this type of tutorial you can also knock me also guide you for this model this set model. Okay. And this is the same for the world food study model. It also same. So first of all this you try this because it's very

easy uh not much hard the lot of resources we find out in the YouTube. So you also try to check this YouTube channel and also study okay for this model and using this model you can easily do simulated the growth development and yield of pro crops for the different conditions soil weather and management. Okay. we can accurate simulation of the prop yield a strong for yield forecasting and scenario analysis. Okay, this type of thing and we can get uh the different types of uh things from this type of uh prop

simulation model. So also try to use this type of model. I hope you can easily get okay. Okay. Any question please? >> No no sir. >> Okay. So my question so I will send you all of material and you also try to uh visit this YouTube channel and then check the desc any question you can also ask me the next class in we discuss about that no problem. >> Okay. >> Okay. >> Okay. So yeah please [Music] have finished. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. >> Uh we we still have have classes or we

have covered all of the topics we supposed to cover. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So as as well as we we are also discuss about this it's very important variable rate application. So this thing is not covered yet. So further closely discuss about that how to work with this type of variable rate application map. Okay. As well as how to apply the drone imagery. Okay. We also discuss about the some machine learning and geospatial data analysis for prison agriculture. Then it will be finished. No problem.

>> How to create the productivity mapping. >> So >> no problem. Yeah please. >> Yes. Yes. So next class will be when will be next class? >> Okay. So Friday, Saturday I have another program. So Sunday or Monday we'll meet and discuss or Monday if not possible the Monday or Sunday we will meet in Sunday. Sunday. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. >> Okay. Thank you. Okay. Have a good night. Bye. >> Good night. Thank you.

Class 2

Hi, good evening. Can you hear me? Hello. Good evening. Can you hear me? Sir. >> Yeah. How are you? >> I'm good. Good evening. >> Uh good evening. Yeah. So after a long time we'll meet. Okay. >> So hope everything is good from your side. Yeah. >> Yes. Yes. >> Okay. Thank you. Okay. So let us go. Uh today I discuss about that another agriculture precision topic. Mainly you already send me a paper about the crop coefficient. Okay. How we can easily identify.

>> Yes sir. uh I try to discuss about this topic how we can identify the pro coefficient using the linear model. Okay, then you can easily get the idea. Okay. So let me share my screen. Uh just a minute. Okay. Can you see my screen? Is it visible? >> Yes, it is coming. So basically today we discuss about this topic how to monitor the water demand of crops to estimate the crop coefficient using the Google Earth engine and basically when you work with the crop coefficient uh then first of all we need

to create a model it's called the linear model. In the linear model, we just make the relationship with vegetation density, different types of crop and further we can easily identify the crop coefficient and this crop coefficient is very important in the agriculture precision because if the this value is the high it means that this type of probe need the water demand is very high. Okay. If the coefficient value is low, it means that water demand is not high as well as we can also get the agriculture or irrigation schedule. We

can also identify using the KSC value. Okay. So let's go try to explain all of those step by step then you can easily get the idea. So there are the lot of application such as special irrigation scheduleuling. We can easily get the idea the scheduleuling about the irrigation and also water use efficiency assessment we can also identify and also probe water requirement estimation we can also do and also integration with the ET models such as cel or metric or sop this type of model we can also integrate with the

KC value okay so basically in the interpretation suppose for the LDVI map it's a vegetation greenness we already know about that it's a vegetation greenness or we can also say that it's one kind of crop density okay suppose I have a crop field so here I find out some place is the high MDVI value it means that this place I find out the very high density of vegetation or bas greenness is very high okay or what is the KC KC map basically it estimate the water use coefficient okay map it's

estimate the water use coefficient higher KC value equivalent the higher evapo transpiration. Okay. So if the value is very high it means that the higher evapo transpiration okay for the for this place for the sparse crop suppose which have the low NDVI value suppose 0.2 2 or less than 0.1 or 0.1 this type of uh low NDVI value or a sparse crop this KCI value is low we find out the low KCI value it means that this type of uh crop is not high above transpiration it's a low evapo transpiration and if the low evapo

transpiration it means that there are not must need the water water demand is low Okay, same just opposite for the dense canopy. Suppose I have a high or good crop plant or good density of crop plant. So here I find out the high NDVI value suppose 0.8. If the NDVI value is very high then KCI value is also high. Okay, because in the high NDVI value or dense crop plant have the higher evapo transpiration. Okay, suppose I have a good field or I have a good uh crop plate. So this type of crop plate I find

out that high NDVI. Okay. And if the NDVI value is high then KCI value is also high because high NDVI value or dense NDVI or dense canopy this type of place I find out the higher above transpiration. Okay. So high KC value indicate the full canopy or high water demand. Okay. Suppose I just calculate the KC value and this KC value I find out some place is very high. It means that this type of prop need the high water demand and if you check this is the formula about the KC. Okay. So here we find out

that you can see uh this is the first formula ET C equal KC multiply with the ET. So here ET ET basically crop above transpiration. Okay. And also uh etc. etc basically crop evop transpiration. Then et zero zero basically difference above transpiration and kc basically crop coefficient. So now we can simply uh calculate this equation equal to crop above transpression divided by reference evable transpiration. Okay. Just we simply just ratio ratio of the crop above transpiration and also reference

above transpiration then we find out the result of KC. Okay. So this is the basic equation for the KC. Okay. But when you create in the remote sensing remote sensing we try to apply the linear model. So we simply find out the KC and also NDVI relationship in the linear model. Yeah please. Please >> please >> that participation is obtained from the the weather data from maybe the the what this climate or from this >> yeah so >> is that and what >> any we can also use

>> okay >> and it is differentation >> it can be come from your weather data okay suppose five reanalyzes data we can also use for the as a reference data no problem. Okay. So there are the two >> crop what is the difference between is a crop transpiration and reference evapor transpiration. >> Okay. Crop evapo transpiration basically for the crop only for the crop. Crop land suppose uh the crop land just transpiration transpiration from the water. Okay. Suppose we already know

about that if you check I will show the some example then it will be more clear. Suppose if you simply search here. Yes, >> the transpiration transpiration it's only happened for the crop land or agricultural land. Okay, transpiration suppose transpiration transpiration in plants. So you can see this is the example about the transpiration you can see. So this is the plant. Okay, this plant also you can see transparate some water. Okay, transfer some water. >> So it's called the ibabu transpiration.

Okay, only for the trees. Only for the trees. So this is the tree. So this tree also release some water. You can see this trees also release some water. Uh plant surface with stomata spread some water. So this water release. Okay. And it's one kind of uh your hydraological process suppose transpiration. So this transpiration is only happened for the plant or trees. So you can see this type of plants this type of tree release the water. Okay. It's called the transpiration. And when this transpiration simply connect with iapo

evapo transpiration. Okay. So it's one kind of transpiration only for the trees. But another transposure is also happened suppose for the weather from suppose ocean or uh normal water body or river or lake. So this type of place also evapor evaporated. Okay. And also release the water just make the uh condensation. Okay. So this type of water evapor and make the condensation. Now my question is >> is there any any satellite data source for for for transpiration and defense transpiration

because I know the mod and climate maybe gives actual transpiration ATC. So actual transpiration can be used as a reference or can be used as a group transpiration or there is a way to extract the actual transport to extract the prop transpiration and referation from actual transpiration. >> Yes, we can also get it from here. Yeah. Yeah. Suppose in the satellite if you check we find out this type of satellite. Suppose one satellite um you simply search here suppose modiso. So you can get you can see netu

transpiration and also aua. So I simply se that and here we find out that you can see this is the um it total above transpiration. >> Okay. >> Yes. Total above transpiration and this also you can see we can get the average latent heat flux this is the LE and you can see the total potential transpiration. >> Yes. >> Okay. PET PET. So this type of transpiration also get from here suppose you can this is totally transpiration the potential transpiration. Okay. So when you just subtract these two things

then you can get the another transpiration. Okay. We also get also the data from generate also from here >> of data. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Okay. As well as also get the some data suppose it's called the ER5 ER5 reanalysis data. But this data mainly it's not good resolution. Okay. It's a very when you want to work with the large area then we try to use this type of data. But for the modis we can also use for the small area because modis is more better than your 5 analysis data we

can also apply no problem. >> Okay. >> Okay. So now we simply generate this type of formula. You can remove this the popup window small popup window. Right. So here we find out that uh basically EC or KC KC basically propo transpiration divided by reference evable transpiration and this reference evable transpiration we can also get from different sources. If you want you can also use at the satellite source or if you want you can also use the weather data. We can also collect the data. You

can see there put the one example. So in the paper we should send me that use the pen man uh monitor this is one kind of source for the weather data to collect the reference of transpiration. They also collect from here and then KC case basically crop coefficient. Okay this is the formula about that. But in this case we try to make the relation with our crop. Okay, suppose and how uh in this case we apply the NDVI. Suppose I want to make the relation K C and N DVI. Suppose I have a value KC and NDVI.

So now here I just apply the linear equation Y = MX + C. Okay, y = MX + C. And then identify the KC= to identify suppose slope value. It's a slope value and it's a intercept value. y = mx + c. So when I just generate this equation then we can easily get the case equation. Okay. So this case equation is simply multiply or connect with the ndvi basically simply multiply with the slope value and also intersect with the intersect value simply add then we can get the kc map. Okay. And how to build build your model.

So now we talk about that suppose how I can build your own model. Suppose in this case we can get the NDVI values from satellite imagery observe the our crop field. Suppose I have a crop field. So I can simply uh get the NDVI values for my crop field and further KC value. In the KC value you can also get the ground measurement KC value. It also possible you can also monitor the KC value from the ground from the ET data or you can also use the tab uh you can also send in your paper uh the AO 56 table adjusted for your condition. So if

you check this paper they also use it paper this is the formula case estimated from this. Okay. And you can see from the FAO table they also get this data. And this is the formula. Okay. ETC equal to ET into KC. So from here they find out the KC value or cofficient value and you can see the they also get the uh KC is ratio of the ETC. Okay. and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization established the table of KC for the different crop. Okay. So this it's the established data. Okay. So we can easily

use it for our any this data because it's provided the food and agriculture organization or or FAO. Okay. They already provide some table KC data for the different crop. Okay. Which is considered an important tool to estimate the KC. So now we can easily get suppose I have a rice I have a craw I have a petty. So there also give this type of crop plant a specific crop plant there they give the case value. Okay. So now suppose I I already have the case value and I already have the NDVI value. So

now what can I make the process? So we are just make the linear model. We just create the linear model. And how I can get the case value? Casey value it provide the food and agriculture organization establish table of case for the different crop. Okay, we can get the data from here and then we also use it for our specific crop. Suppose in this case there is the location area. So this is the crop plant. So in the crop plant they have you can see the wheat uh potato and sugar bit. So this type of

crop plant. So this type of individual crop have a different case value and this case value they collect from the food and agriculture organization established data set they also collect from here. So now further they make the linear relationship and make the um analysis okay so so now how I can make the relationship about that. Okay we'll also discuss about that then you can easily build build your own model. So in this case our main target we try to create. So you can see they are put the this type of value. So for

this time they get the NDVA value and also get the KC value for the W for the different time sugar bit and potato field they also get this type of data. So now this type of data they use and make the relation. You can see in the relation basically this is the slope value and this is the intercept value. Just simply apply the slope and interate pillow and then make the model. Okay. And then make the model. So now there use this model and and make the KCM map. Okay. So let's go try to discuss about

the how we can create this also you can see this is the linear relationship about this model and also calculate the R square value relationship about that. Uh okay. So let's go try to discuss about that how we can easily create this type of model. So now we can easily use here the Python because we can easily apply the linear model using the Python uh for the two data set. Suppose in this case NDVI and KCI value we simply apply this model and make the linear model or linear equation for the NDVI and KC value. So let's go.

So for that okay let me open my query editor. So you can easily use at the uh just open your terminal. Okay let me open from here >> sir. >> Yeah please. In that ter in the terminal that you have opened in when I I I installed that anaconda I have two terminal command prompt terminal and I have the ter you use anaconda prompt you can use the uh yeah terminal for the anaconda terminal because >> we normally two terminal you find out one for the your computer okay another is for the your anaconda terminal so you

just because we just installed all of library in the Anaconda distribution. So simply open the Anaconda prompt or Anaconda terminal. Okay. So in this terminal I simply active my um active my library or active my cond. So simply write here activate >> environment. >> Uh just put the environment. My environment name is that go AI. So I already show you that how we can really make the environment and also install the package. So just I simply open the GI. So because I already installed all

of those. So now I just simply open my Jupiter Jupiter lab in here. So Jupiter Jupiter lab just I open sorry I put the equal sign Jupiter lab. So now it's open a uh workbook. So just I open the new notebook. So just I or I write I I write the code in here. It doesn't matter. Just I import the new cell. Okay. Just I start from here. So now first of all I need to import some important library. Okay. Which I need to make the model. Okay. Just I simply import some library to perform the analysis of linear model.

So basically we need the one library import uh numpy numpy as np I put the name and also import the mplot li to display the chart. import m plot library dot piplot piplot as plt and also import we also put the linear regression model. So the from uh I put here skarn dot linear linear model and import this model. It's called the linear regression. Linear regression. Linear regression. And finally we also made the another one uh it's called the uh escore or skarn matrix. We try to check for the accuracy. So skarn

dot matrix import r² value. So just put the RS RS score just simply import. Okay, there is no problem. It means that our all of package is successfully installed. Okay, in our system I simply imported all of those. Now take the new cell. So in this new cell uh in this case suppose I already have the NDVI value and also have the KC value for individual crop plant. Okay I already have. So in this case I simply randomly import this type of NDVI value and also KC value. I simply import because I already have this type of value. So I

take a variable suppose NDVI and just I simply make a array. For the array we need the numpy library. So I call the np dot array. I just make a array and store it all of ndvi value for a specific crop plant. Suppose 0.23 suppose this is my NDVA value for the specific crop plant. Suppose I have the another one 0.5. Suppose I have another one 0.56. Suppose I have another one 0 um 68 suppose >> but if I have them I have them in CSV file and import CSV file is it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Suppose I have a CSV file

all of data. I have a two column. Suppose one column is stored for NDVI another column for the KC. So we can simply import the CSV file and then also work no problem. Okay. 074. Suppose then I put here the 0.78 then put here suppose um 0.81 then put here suppose 0.83. So I simply imported NDVI. And now for this NDVI for this place or for this field what is the case value I simply import the Ky value all of Ky value. So I simply put the uh KC equal NP dot array and same process I simply import the uh

your KC value suppose for for this first NDV I find out the case value suppose 0.20 20 for the first crop land or crop area. Suppose this is a potato or this is the sugar can or a specific any other crop and then suppose I find out the another 0.77 suppose I find out the another one uh 0 uh 62 suppose I find out the another one suppose 1.0 suppose I find out the one uh 1.02 02 then I find out suppose 0.96 >> yeah please >> I'm just asking asking the question myself that if the aims of this model is

to estimate is a KC value is it >> okay so in this time this KC value we can also measure from our field okay suppose for the specific geol ation okay for the specific crop plan area suppose I have already suppose NDVI and same same crop plan or same area we also compute the NDVI value 0.23 23 or 0.5 and same place we try to check what is the KC value we simply measured the KC value >> so now my target is that I want to predict the KC value based on the NDVI so I make a relationship KC and NDVI so

in this case we try to make the y = mx + c so we try to put uh y = mx + c it's called the linear equation in this linear linear equation here y is the case value. Okay, y is the case value. Y is the case value and M basically slope value and X basically NDVI value and I already have the NDV suppose I have NDVI map. So this NDVI map how I can convert into KC map. So the for this we need to apply the linear model Y equal to MX + C. Here y is different. Y is different and x is independent. Okay. And I want to predict

the y. Y basically kc. So we can simply write y equal to suppose kc. K equal mult* n dvi. Okay. Plus c. So now this is my target. I want to compute this equation. And in this equation I want to identify for M value and C value. Okay. From the linear model I just identify M value and C value. So further this M value and C value I want to apply on my NDVI map and then I can easily get the KC map. Okay. So our main target is that we just make a equation. Okay. And how I can make this equation? We can just use this

data NDVA and KC data and make the linear relation y = mx + c because m and c basically slope value and c value is same. Okay, M value and C value is the same for any any data any data point we find out the M value and C value is the same but this NDV value is the different different and if the NDV value is changed then KC value is al also changed. So in this equation in this equation if I know the C value and I also know about the M value and I already have the NDVI value then I can easily predict the KC value.

Okay, I can easily predict the Ky value and this Ky value I can easily this equation is simply interpret with my uh NDVI equation and I can easily predict the Ky map and from the case map we can easily get the different information suppose highbo transpiration uh for the highbo transpiration indicating about that high water demand crop plant okay and low KCI value indicating about that low water demand crop plant we can easily get the idea over here. Okay. So now we get this equation and now we try

to compute. Suppose in this case uh it's independent and it's dependent. Okay. It this is the independent and independent always will be one dimension. Okay. It's always one dimension. If you check suppose if I just print NDVI just I print. Okay. Let me run it again. just run and also print the NDVI. So you can see we find out this type of dimension array it create the NDVI value but when I reshape it suppose I put the reshape value reshape into minus one to one just shape and now if I just run

so now you can see it show this type of dimension okay so you always remember that independent variable independent so In in this case x is independent. Okay. And for my equation ndvi is the independent and indep independent of variable always is the one dimensional. And how I can make the one dimensional just use the reshape and use the minus one to one. Then it just show this type of dimension and KC is the dependent. It's not need to change. We just keep the same. If you check the KC KC and run it. So we can get this type

of value. Okay. not need to change anything but independent so NDVA is the independent variable so that's why simply reshape it okay otherwise is not need because we predict the case okay so now we simply make the fit linear regression okay so we just simply call the linear regression model so for that I take a variable suppose model this variable I simply import my I already import the one model you can say linear regression model just I copy and paste here okay I simply call my model linear regression

okay so now this model I want to train with the data NDVI and KCI data so how I can train for the train just call the variable name model and apply the fit function for train this model. Okay. So I just call the NDVI and also call the KC. Just I simply put the two column in my CSV file which is stored the data NDVA and KC. Just I run it. So now this model is training. And now I can easily identify the coefficient here and intercept. If you check just call the model. Suppose I take a variable A equal I call the

model. From this model I want to check the cofficient value. So just apply the function co e f cofficient coefficient underscore and put the zero. Okay. So now you just run the code. So now this a value if you check the a value it show the one kind of value 1.45. So this is the coefficient value. Okay. Or it's called the slope value. We find out the slope value. this type of sol. >> So now we want to identify suppose uh intercept intercept value for that same process just take the another variable

and call your model and from this model I want to identify intercept intercept and run it and also print the b value. So we find out this is the intercept value we find out in here. Okay, this is the intercept value we find out in here. So now I just simply identify uh coefficient value and interested value. So now I want to check for R² R² value from my model and I want to predict. Okay. So let's try to take the another variable R². Suppose I just call the R2 square library function and just put here the KC. Okay, KC,

and then put here that call the model model dot predict NDPI. Just run it. So now we just print the equation. Suppose print the final equation. Suppose I just write the notation. Suppose equation equation uh KC equal a it's come from a value and I take the three digit after decimal three digit okay this value just multiply with NDVI okay and plus intercept so I just simply define the intercept value so it's come from the B variable and I take the three three floating number or three decimal number

okay so equation is simply print. Okay, just run it. So I can say we find out this type of equation in here. So we find out KC value. You can see this is the M value and this is the slope value we find out in here. Okay, this is the M value and this is the slope value. Okay, and I already have the NDVI value. So now I can easily predict the SC value. So it's one kind of equation. As well as if you want you can also make the um R value. You can just print for the underscore value. Uh just print

suppose uh coefficient coefficient of determination. coefficient of determination it's R² value R² value and this values come from this variable R square variable so R2 variable and I take the first uh three floating number So run it. So we find out you can this R square value we find out that and if the R square value is the more strong it means that your data sheet is more accurate your accuracy is also more accurate. Okay. And if the value is the low or negative negative mainly just we find out the vice versa and if negative

positive value a strong relation we find out the strong relation. If you find out the positive value and if the RS square value is the zero it means that no relation. So we find out the strong relationship in our data set and this type of things we can also just make a plot and display the result. So how I can make the plot for the plotting um just simply just call the plt.py plust I just call the plt and apply the scatter. I make the scatter of NDVI data and also KC data. KC data >> just run the code. So you can find out

this type of chart. If you want you can also make the more style you can just make the fitted line also. Okay. So I just put here suppose uh color I put the color as a uh suppose green color. Then I put here suppose I can also add the label label I put the label suppose title can suppose observe. Okay. And if you want to also put the fitted line. So for that plt dot plot call the NDVI then just apply the model predict and I put the color take Great I put the level suppose it's a fitted line

I find out this type of fitted line as well as we can also added suppose uh PL LD dot X level and add the X level title suppose I put that say X NDVI and also PLT dot Y level I put a prop coefficient or Then we just add the title plt dot title. Put any title. The title linear relationship or relationship between between NDVI and SC then also add plt.listen le we can also add the leg of the chart and we can also apply suppose PLT dot grid just add the grid just put the true full boolean operated true and also plt dot

show and then run it. So like we find out this all of those is added in our title also add the X level Y level title. Okay then we can easily get the observe and also fitted line. Okay and this is our main equation y= to MX plus c. So now how I can use it suppose I just generate this type of linear model and now this model how I can implement on my data set. Okay and then identify of casey map. Okay. So what's that we have just uh come to the Google co after creating our model use the NDVI data and also use

of the KC data simply use and then identify coefficient value and also identify intercept value. So now we can simply apply >> sir >> yeah please >> is it possible to to to to export this graph as PDF4 image >> yeah it also pos from the Okay. Or you can also download the uh PLC file format or also download the PDF file format. Okay. >> Okay. And you you maybe you may try maybe to show me later on when we have this data in the CSV both two columns of KC and DVI. >> Yes. Yes.

show me later. >> Okay. Okay. So now we try to check how we can easily add this model. Uh suppose I find out this type of equation. I want to apply this equation on my model or prof field model and then identify for KC map. Suppose this is my study area. Okay, suppose this is my study area. So I just I use this place different types of prop NDVI value and also KC value suppose I just have. So now I just apply the case map for my place and identify which crop plant need the more water demand. More water demand

means that it the more evapo transpiration. Okay. And what is the transpiration? Evapot transpiration mean release of water. Okay. Release of water. So suppose I find out this pl this crop plant have the more evapo transpiration. It means that this crop plant area need the mass water demand this crop plant because their evapo transpiration is very high. Okay. So it's mass more water demand is more water for this type of uh crop plant. Okay. So let's go try to uh identify. So now first step is I just I already

take the study area because I just collect some data from here NDVI data. So you can also place any types of propane area no problem. So first step we need to call a satellite data. So from this satellite we just simply calculate the NDVI. So in this case it also better we try to apply for signal 2 because it's the high resolution we can get the more better map. So I just apply um Sentinel 2. I just I simply search for go to the browse data catalog and then import your data set and it work to multi speaker

and if you check I want to work with suppose surface reflectance data. Just copy the snippet ID. So now we simply uh load satellite imagery. Okay. You can also apply the landset also. same process for any other satellite images. I just simply import and give the variable name suppose S2. Just simply put here uh filter bounds with my stud area a filter. So I take the data suppose year of 2024 or for the crop season area or I put here suppose 2025 1st January from year of 2025 03 31. So I take this type of this is

the pro season area for any specific agriculture season. We simply put the time and now filter I want to filter suppose cloud cover e dot filter dot less than. So just put here the uh uh image property. I choose suppose cloud pixel percent. Just copy the property name and paste here and I put the value. Suppose I take the uh 10%. Right? So now let's check how many measures are available and run the okay so we find out the 28 images for this place between this time period. Okay. So now in this case first of all

we try to identify NDVI we just make the NDVI and then when I get the NDVI then I can easily apply the KC function. Okay. Basically this uh this equation is simply applied in my model. So let's go. So how we can apply it? So in this case I want to create the NDVI map for every image. Suppose I have total 28 image. So I want to create the NDVI map for every single images not create the median or mosaic. I don't use the mosaic other. So I create the NDVI for every images. So how I can do it? So for you need to

apply the function. So we create a function or we create a tool. So this tool help you to compute NDVI for every single images. So let's go try to create a function. So just I put the function keyword and I put the element name suppose img and I put my argument. What is my argument using this element? So my argument is that I want to make NDVI. You take a variable suppose NDVI equal uh if you check NDVI equal I just put here call the element and apply the normalized difference between two band for sentinel

2 near infrared B8 and B4 and I rename it dot rename I put the rename as the NDVI. Okay. So I find out the NDVI. So now I want to apply this model. So in this model um if you check we find out this type of equation uh this type of equation you find out in here but in this paper we just use this model. Uh if you check this there use the equation. So in this time I just take the manually value. So that's why you find out but I want to use it. Okay, I want to use this model. But how we can easily create just apply your real data.

So when you work with the real data just apply this uh this process. Okay, then we can easily get the slope value and interet value. So in this case I want to apply this equation and then I want to identify for the KC. Okay. But when you work with the real data then try to apply the same process then we can get the more better result. Okay. So let's go try to apply this model which I gained from this research paper. Suppose in this time they use this equation AC value equal 1.259. So this is the slope

value. This slope value multiply with NDVI result. So take a variable suppose KC equal I just call the NDVI and it's multiply with this value. So this is the slope value and add with intercept value. Intercept value will 0.034. So this is the C value and then we just put the rename function. Rename I put it it's say or okay so now I have a question >> please >> I have a question please please those NDVI values that we have used to calculate the slope and intercept are different from this NDVI that we

have created from this image are different if are difference the area also are different value of the same stud Okay. So it also >> you get my question. >> Yeah, I got your question. So in this time this model linear model it's basically uh not much vary for the similar prop. >> Okay. Suppose this is your place uh you can suppose this is the place I just get the data for the suppose sugar can I want to cultivate the sugar can in the other place. So I can also use this value. It not much more difference we

don't find. So almost similar find out. >> Okay. And you can also >> my question is >> I'm just confused with the the data the NDVI value because this slope and and intercept we have got them from the NDVI value is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. >> And also here in Google engine we create the NDVI value using this sentinary tool. Is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So basically we identify case this KC value we identify based on the NDVI value. >> Okay. >> Yes.

>> Yeah. So I have a NDVI map. Okay. And I already KCI value is limited. Suppose just I have the KCI value only for this specific crop planned area. But NDVI value or NDVI map I find out for the whole study area from my satellite imagery. But KC value I have the some specific crop land area. Okay. So what can I do? I simply use this same area. I want to identify NDVI value. Okay. Suppose you can see in our uh in this notebook you can see suppose I have this KC value. So for this KC value what is

the NDVI value? I simply gain. So what is the for this KI case value? what is the NDVI value I can gain? So for this KCI value, what is the NDVI value? Okay, I have this type of value. So now from between this type of value, NDVI and KCI simply make the linear model and identify for the KC. Okay, based on the NDVI. So in this case NDVI is the independent and case value is the dependent because case value is depend on the NDVI value and I already have the NDVI for all of place but KC value I don't have all of so that's the reason I

just use the NDVI and predict the KC value okay for the whole study area or whole all of area Okay. Okay. So let's go. I just show you the result then get the bit area. So now I simply so this equation we simply collect from our uh from our linear model. Okay. So this equation it's come from the linear model. Okay. And how we can make the linear model. So for this linear model we need the ground truth KC value and also have the how I can get the NDVI value? We can easily get the NDVI value. Okay. Suppose uh if you

simply make the NDVI map. Suppose this is my one training sample. This is my another training sample. So I can easily extract the NDVI for this type of place. Suppose this is my station. Okay. So I simply visited this type of point and I just storeed the NDVI value orate the KC value. Okay. From the field and then I simply come in the Google Earth Engine and further I also extract the NDVI value for this type of place and generate this type of data. Okay, for this suppose for this for this K for

this coordinate we find out this KC value and also find out the NDVI value for the similar coordinate I find out the KCI value and also find out the NDVI value just we make the data set okay for the similar coordinate or similar point and further we just make the linear model and this linear model I find out the equation linear equation. So this linear equation we just use and predict the KC for the whole study area. Okay. All of prop area. Okay. So now we simply apply this KC. So we are just returned return this uh

image add bands add bands of uh NDVI and also add bands of SC then apply the copy properties. So copy copy properties this element and system. So now what happened if you just simply print S2 all of image. Oh so this is the function we need to connect with our collection. So for the connecting just use the map function. So put the dot map bracket start and close the bracket. So now run the code. So now every image it compute the NDVI and KC uh for the problem system. No, we just use the Okay. So now if you check

we find out the result all of images compute KC and NDVI. Okay. We compute the KC and NDVI. Okay. >> Oh now now sir I understand. >> Yeah. Now we used to calculate slope and intercept >> just not from all but we pick only the some point is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. >> But in this in this it means the whole study area. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because K value is not have all of area. I have some few case value but NDV is available for the all of area. we can easily collect from the

satellite but KC is for a specific station area. >> Okay. >> So you must have you must have DVI in the same area which you have the KC. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. >> So in other in that you don't have KC value that's now we come now to estimate now from this >> from this model. Okay. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. So now this model is easy estimate suppose other place suppose I don't have the case value for this pro plan area so then it's easily predict by

the slope and intercept just use this linear model and then predict >> the case value okay >> so that means it is impossible now to estimate KC value if you don't have the the ground truth of sum of the area of KC you must have at least some point of KC is it >> yes yes yes and this KC value we can also generate from not only for the alltime ground suppose you can also use some reference data suppose in this paper they use at the uh for the individual crop suppose for the wheat or

sugar beat or potato that use some data it's collect from the food and agriculture organization okay table you can also go to the website then you also get the some data from the individual crop of the individual case value okay it's the established data you can also use it as well as if you want you can also uh get some source data suppose modis uh we can also get from the KC data also get from the modis uh evable transportation from this type of data set we also collect the uh KC data okay

but it also better if you if you have the chance to collect the data from the ground it also more better or you can also use the food and agriculture table data we can also get the data from here for the individual crop have the individual case value and it's the fixed for any stud area yeah Please. Yes, please. Okay. >> Yes. Can you hear me? >> Hello. >> Yeah. So, suddenly now I can hear you. >> Okay. Okay. So, let's go again. Continue. Yeah. Please. >> Yes. I I've asked that those file data

from from food and agriculture organization >> are specific for some for the for as fixed in any region or for a specific region. >> So it's not fixed it's just for the crop plan suppose for the sugar can crop plant area. So this the fixed value then potato then other crop have the specific value have the specific case value. Okay it's fixed for any study area you can also apply no problem. Okay, just we know about the field um crop. Suppose this field is the potato or sugar cane or which crop this field

then we can get the case value from the food and agriculture this website we can get it and then we can just use it and this type of uh crop planner field we can easily extract the NDVI value okay from the satellite data further we simply develop the model okay and then model is simply implement in the code editor and we can get the result okay so now let's So we try to estimate the other part as we find out. So now suppose I want to display some map just apply map dot add layer and call the s2.

I put the uh s2 uh two bands I apply and clip with my stud area which is ai ai and run the program. >> You can't use the media more here. So in this time we just display all of all of uh single image we try to just add using the two bands function it just mainly help you all of bands connecting at the same time. Okay. So let's go to check. Okay. So if you check this layer, so you can see it show this type of So you can see this is the this is the band. Uh suppose I show you the single band.

You can see. So this type of band we find out. So I want to just check only for that. So okay. Okay. So let me just filter the band then it will be more better. We are not all of band. So I have to select only for the KC or NNVI. >> So put the select. >> Yes. >> And apply the make a list. I put here the KC >> N >> and NDVI went >> small and NDVI dot. So now every image we find out the two band KC and NDVI and we can also display the map okay for the every time period.

So now from here we can get the idea uh which state or which time which crop plant need the more water we can get this type of information from here. Okay suppose just I focus and if you just click on here just I display for the one band. So you can see this is the now all of those show KC and NDVI. Suppose you can see this is the first uh this is the this is the time we find out the KC. So I add the color for this time at 8%. Okay. So it's a single time single date imagery result. Okay. for this 2022 25

uh 0 2nd January okay 2nd January for the scenario for the crop you can get the idea so you simply add the color okay so in this time suppose for the KC uh suppose I put the low value show the blue color then suppose uh greater than I show this type of sand color or greater than I need to show this type of yellow color and uh use suppose this type of green color. Okay. And apply. So now this type of green color indicating about the high value of uh your evaporable transpiration or a high demand of water. Okay. This type of land

this type of land or this type of uh green color indicating about the high KC value. And if the KC value is high it's indicating about the high demand of water because this place have the high above transpiration this type of crop plan area basically high above transition means that it release the high water. Okay. So that's why this type of place the demand of water is very high but this type of place is low also this type of others is low. So we can find out this type of place or this type of green

land or green color indicating about the high demand of water because KC value is very high for this type of place KC value for this type of place and for this time. So you can also check the all of time suppose which time you need. So we can simply seize the time and display the result. Okay. Or if you want you can also create suppose composite suppose all of all of uh image 28 image I just make the composite and display the map it also possible. So for that we simply uh just add suppose just I comment it

and I create suppose composite and display the result. So let's go try to show you that. So for that uh just take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is suppose median and I call the S2. This S2 simply make the median composite and clip with our ST area. suppose a and now uh map add layer. So map add layer I suppose I want to add the layer for uh NDVI and also KC. So median I just simply call and then apply here select function select the NDVI okay and I'll set the color plated suppose mean

suppose zero to max or one and add the color at it make the list suppose I put here that brown color for low DVI then yellow then put here uh green okay and I put the layer name it's 10 DVI same process just apply and make the KC just I copy and I select for band of KC which I already generate and I put the value for case suppose zero and one suppose So I put the 1.4 and add the color. Suppose I put the color for uh low. Suppose put here the blue. Then put here the uh get then put here the scan.

Then put here the suppose yellow and put here the green color and put the layer name and suppose it's a yes. So now at the same time you find out the two map uh sorry put here in here layer name just so now we find out the NDVI and also find out the case at the same time. Okay. So high NDVI value it means that dense vegetation or good vegetation and we find out the high NDVI value plus we find out the high Ky value. So if you check the result uh this is the NDVI. So let me just stress then it look more perfect but this type

of green color indicating about the high NDVI value or good vegetation or dense vegetation or dense crop plan area or dense crop plant. We find out this type of place. Okay, this type of green color indicating about that this type of so you can see this type of place have the good vegetation. Okay, or dense vegetation. So that's why this type of place is the high ebapo transpiration and if the ibapo transpiration is high then we also find out the case value is also high. So then if you check the Ky value

just stressing the result look more perfect. So green is indicating about the high C value. So this type of high C value indicating about the high demand of water. Okay. This type of this type of place. Yeah please. I I I saw that the the area where there is there is low vegetation low it maybe requires large amounts of water than the high vegetated vegetation area or it is vice versa. >> So it's vice versa. Suppose low vegetation area we find out the low value of Ky. Okay. So Ky value this part vegetation

we find out the low value of KC. it means that their above transpiration is also low. So if the ibabot transpiration is the low it means that for this type of cor plant not must need more water. But but in reality the area where there is low inifia it means maybe we need to to to to water it that area than the area which has vegetation. Is it or it's different? >> It's different. It's different. So basically in this time the KC value is help you to identify for it make the relation with the dense vegetation okay

or good vegetation. So we can also get the idea suppose this type of place it show very high KC value it means that their productivity is also high but you can see it show this type of blue color it means that it the sparse vegetation it not much good crop plant this type of area this type of area so that's why it show the case value is the low because it's the sparse vegetation not dense crop plant but this type of green color indicating about the dense crop plant so that's why their case value is also high

and if the case is the high then we find out The high evopo transpiration highbo transpiration because it's yeah and need a lot of water for this type of demand is very high for this type of crop plant area but this type of it's not this type of crop area you can see this type of crop plant. Okay. So just make the dense vegetation. So how we can identify dense vegetation. So in this case we are just apply the NDVI and identify for the dense vegetation and espert vegetation. So then we simply apply the KC model. Casey

model we generate the take the ground truth data and make the case model and further we simply make the relation and identify if the case value is the high it means that this type of place is the more above transpiration and if the above transpiration is the more it means that it's the dense vegetation and when the above transpiration is more it means that this type of cor plant the water demand is very high suppose it can be sugar can it can be or rice ice. Okay. Some some crop plant have the different

types of demand of water. Some crop plant area need the more water irrigation. Some water sub crop plan area need the low irrigation. Okay. So it's the depend on the crop plant area. So that's the region f food and agriculture or organization they provide the specific crop plant have the specific value of Ky. Okay. So then we can easily measurement from this value. >> There is there is a fixed range of of KC value. Example then we know it is one to one. Then KC maybe we have the highest

and the lowest is there fixed range. >> A KC value is always fixed for that. Okay. For this >> I mean my question NDVI is range between one and positive one is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes, >> but KC value I think I I see the value is just vary there is no fix maybe the lowest case maybe one and the highest maybe two or >> yes yes >> uh P AC value. So you can see the single crop you can see food and agriculture website chapter six uh single crop coefficient. Okay. So from here you can get the data

and it's the fix for any est area. So you can see it is this is the formula. Okay. And you can see this is the different types of a small vegetable. Okay. So you find out okay and as you can see also find out the plant that they also provide. Okay. for this type of um value. So also find out. Okay. >> That is from from far is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. We can see. So this is single crop. Is it free available? >> Yeah. Yes. Yes. You can say the dual crop. So you can see the KC

value for the broccoli. You can see different types of vegetable crop. We find out the KC initial value KC mean value or C in value. Okay. For the initial time suppose for the growth st. Okay. that was planting st then uh peak of the growth st and also harvesting st mainly in okay so different three st of the crop uh phenology we find out the different different value okay simply then we can easily get the resultancy for the initial then pick up the growth and also harvesting okay so this type of three case we find out from

here evaporated you can see maximum amount of the water that can be evaporated soil proportion reduction KR value also you can see right but in this we just talk about the KC and then work with that but you can see there's a lot of other parameter we can also connect with our model not only for the KC we can also the K model K you can see the different types of parameter. So you also read this type of that then a lot of information about the crop water demand calculation or the crop coefficient. Okay. Second the

calculation of the crop coefficient under the f irrigation. Mhm. It provides a lot of information. Mhm. and further simply use on your study area and then get the result. Okay. So now we just talk about that how we can easily make the time series suppose when it's very high demand of water when the low demand of water. So how we can easily determine this type of things. Now we talk about that. Okay. And we can simply export this type of map and also work the arc map user software to work with make the proper map for

your paper presentation. Sir >> yeah please in this method that you have used we didn't use the referency transpolation and the the group of transpolation is it >> okay basically this f data called the reference uh your reference of patient okay it's provided provide the ready data. Okay, suppose it's already calculate the KC for individual crop and provide the KC. So don't need the but but it also possible suppose you have some other sources uh you can get that this type of data. So then we can also

compute the using the formula and identify the for the KC value. But in this time this file this data set is already work. So not need to change just directly can use the this type of value. >> Okay. Okay. So now we talk about the times charts about how we can easily make and identify for the case. So it's very easy just apply the same process to identify which time need the more water demand on the crop plant area. It means that suppose this crop plant when need the more irrigation. So we can easily

identify from the case value times the chart. We already make the MS collection total 28 MS collection. Just I call the S2. So just I call the S2 and then select the band of uh Cy region is my study area. Suppose AOY I want to compute suppose maximum demand of KC value maximum KC value. So E dot reducer dot max scale. So 10 m I give for this X property we just put here system time start. So finally simply print the chart and Okay. So now Yeah. Please >> please can you can you go back to to to

to Jupiter? Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Jupiter. >> Yes. in that data that KC value is now this means this KC values this 0.2 0.7 7 0.6 6 2 1 These are from different crops is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Different crop. >> If if it is the same crop, the value should should be one the same is it? >> Yes. Specific value but NDVI can be different. >> NVI can be different but the same. >> Will it be possible maybe to put the value one one correlation will be will be no correlation

suppose in this case this KC KC value can be same for different vegetation but NDV value cannot be same for the different vegetation okay suppose I find out >> yeah suppose I find out this value same 1.0 this 1.0 and 1.0 zero. So it's a similar crop but I find out the NVI is different. >> Hold on. >> I find out the different NDVI value. >> Yes. >> Okay. So it's also possible. It also possible. >> Can you can you put 1.0 in the whole column of KC here and run for 2C?

>> Okay. So I put here suppose 3 1.0 1.0. You can see 1.0. Suppose it's a rice. It's a rice. It's a rice. Okay. Similar KC value but different different value. >> Okay. >> Yes. The whole column I want the whole column of KC please. >> Which one? >> This whole column of KC. KC KC. >> Yes. Put 1.0. The whole column. >> Similar crop. >> Yes. Similar crop. Maybe sugar cane. The whole you want to estimate from the sugar. Yeah. Yeah. You understand? I

understand. Yeah. Yes. Okay. Similar. So now we just run So you find out you can see no >> yeah you can see >> no correlation so it show that R² value is that 1.0 zero. >> Okay. >> Yes. No correlation. >> Yeah. >> Is one one means 100 100%. >> Yeah. >> Okay. But when you want you just simply compare then it will look more perfect. So different different crops suppose rice sugar can or j suppose in this time in this field uh it's not cultivate only

for rice it's cultivate the different types of crop okay and different type of crop have the different demand of water and if you check we find out this type result for the case. So when the case value is the high or low we can get the idea from here. Okay. So now these things we can also identify also. Suppose um this is my crop plant area. So now I want to make the scatter and I also make the uh correlation. Okay. I want to make the scatter value between KC and NDVI. Suppose from this um from this two map I

simply collect suppose 500 sample training sample randomly. Okay. Or if you want you can also take the specific crop plan also. But I want to take the randomly suppose 500 training sample and extract the values for NDVA and also extract the values for KC and further we can also display the uh scatter chart and from here you can also get the relationship also. So for that it also possible if you want you can also take the uh specific crop plant. Suppose you you know this is the rice this place is

the rice or this is sugar can. So then you can also get the training sample from here. Suppose just click on here and take the training sample for suppose rice or sugar can just simply take this type of training sample or if you want you can also take suppose randomly suppose just take a variable uh pts or point and I take the random point. So just put here e dot uh feature collection collection dot random points okay it's create the random points on my study area suppose 500 okay so if you just map add layer so

if you check it show it added the total 500 points on your study area randomly okay so now what happens suppose I want to extract the all of 500 points is uh 500 points mainly uh your extract the information for KC and NVI and further I want to make the correlation this type of values >> you you have added 500 points randomly >> yes 500 points randomly I just generate you can also put the 800 so you can put any value so I just create the 500 points for my study area so now I want to extract the value for NDV and the KC.

So take a variable suppose uh I put the variable samples and I extract the samples from the from the map. So just I call the median from this median I the pixel value of KC and NDPI. So just use the select function and set the band of NDVI and K. Okay. Then simply apply the dot uh sample regions and extract the value from the points collection. Okay. So first of all just simply put here that uh collection collection collection will be pts and scale I put the scale suppose 10 m. Okay. So now I want to if you just

simply print and easily display all of result the values So 500 training sample we get the result. You can check the two value. This is the NDY value and this is the case value. So now I want to use all of those and make the uh correlation or linear relationship. So for that or also download this type of data, okay, to use the in the Python environment or download the CSV file. Okay. So let's go try to just do it for this type of data extracting. So for that just take a variable suppose chart. I want to create a chart.

UI dot chart dot feature dot by feature. and close this. >> So just put here feature by feature. Okay, just yeah samples I just put right at the same time samples uh and these samples have the two column. So first column NDVI and in this time I want to predict KC. Okay, KC is for uh depend. So depend column you just put the this bracket. Okay, just and put the column name KC because KC is the defend on the NDVI. >> Okay, so just I put it and then you can also apply start type. Suppose I want to create the

uh scatter chart. So put here the dot set chart type. Okay. Set chart type. Put the skater skater chart and then also add the suppose title. So put at the set options to add the title. I put the title NDBI versus AC. Then put here suppose XL Y level title Saxis NDVI and vertical axis. put the title is it's mainly your uh guessing print the chart run. So it create the another chart. So you can see find out this type of trend. So it show that you can see positive find out in here. Okay. And you can also download the data and

further you can also use it to identify for um make the RS square value or correlation value using the Python. Same process just import the CSV file. Okay. to identify a policy or other things it also possible. So this is the one another way we can also get this type of things from here to make the scattered chart. Okay. And finally if you want to another thing is that uh for the time series chart of the KC every image. So in this time we create the time series chart not for every image. So it also possible

another way we can also compute the time series chart. This I think it also more perfect. So let's go I show you the process also. Take a variable suppose a y I'll take a point suppose e dot uh geometry dot point just a That was 32.0 0 and 30 6 and I take the buffer so put the buffer suppose uh 400 4 kilome 4,000 m I put center object Suppose this is my study area. So I want to identify for KC. So just I apply the same code just I copy just I copy the same things from here. Okay. So you find out this type of

result. So now we just simply check um time series chart. Time three chart of mean KC over AI AI every image we try to compute every image in the period. Okay. So for that we need to compute the average KCI value for every image. So take a variable suppose we just create a function. Okay. So suppose I put the variable name suppose ts and create a function. I put the function name suppose a img. And now we compute the every images average value. So take a variable suppose mean and call the img. Apply the reduce

region. and put the reducer e dot reducer dot mean to compute average case for every images then put here geometry basically a yi then scale is a 10 m. Okay. So now this is the function this function we need to connect with our data set our image collection. So S2 I simply call the S2 just connect from the S2 we simply select the band of uh KC KC okay and connect. So put here the dot map function just connecting. So now it's help you to compute every single images average value of KC. Okay. So now we simply define

dot get SC and what we return? So we return uh e dot feature basically it's a null feature put the null and from where we just date the two information date and value so just we put here date a e dot date and this date it's come from uh system Just define system trans and put the format. I put the format date format suppose year year month and day. Okay. Then another column it's called that case mean I put KC and put the mean. Okay. we simply return this function. So now if you print suppose just

print the ts and run the code. Okay. So it show the dictionary image. Okay. So it's a get. So if you check we can get the feature every images average value. So you can see for this time we find out this value case value average case value for this time also you can see for this time we find out this case value. Okay. So now this thing we simply represent as a chart. then it look more perfect then we can easily get that uh which time it need the more water demand okay which time you find out the high

KCI value we can easily get this idea so for that simply get the result take a variable uh suppose chart and apply UI dot chart feature dot by feature by feature and then call the ts this variable and I want to put the date okay and I want to define the value so put here the kc dot min so kc this column kc Okay. Now if you want to put here suppose dot set chart type I put the chart type suppose line chart line chart and also add suppose set uh option to add title output are those mean KC value AI

uh then put here suppose horizontal axis Xaxis put the title it's a depth and also vertical axis It's a case value or KC dimension dimension. You can also put here suppose just let me show you the chart. Print the chart and run the so you find out this type of chart if you check. Okay. So if you want to look more perfect suppose I want to put here the point size you see we put here the point size define the point size suppose three and also identify suppose line width line weight suppose two

so now from here you can get the idea when we need the more water demand okay based on the value for this area. Okay. So you find out this type of you can see Yeah, please. >> What is the difference of that time series of chat feature by feature and that we use ui charts series? >> Okay, so basically this is the feature by feature means that you can see we make the chart from this feature. It's a feature collection you can see. So I have a feature. You can see it's feature. Okay. This type of feature we

just represent. In this feature you can check I have this column KC mean column and also date column. So I want to represent this feature as a chart. Okay. So feature by feature means that when you make the chart from the feature. Okay. So in this time I have a feature. So it's a feature image >> not image. It's a feature. >> Okay. But this data we generate from the image and convert into feature collection you can see e feature. So now this data it's come from this our you

can see satellite uh sentinel to satellite imagery from the case band we get the data we compute average case value for our study area for every images okay and it make the feature feature collection and store it in this variable. So now from this feature I want to make the time uh series chart. So for this you can see I have the date I already get the date from this function I can get the date and also get the case mean value. So this thing I simply represent as a chart using the feature by feature uh

function. So now we can easily get the more better chart to identify. So I can see which date I need the more pro demand of water. So you find out the 2025 26th February. So this time for my study area prop water demand is very high because in this time I find out the average value is very high. So now for this time my crop plant area need the more irrigation for this time. Okay also you can see for this time need the low low irrigation for this time I need the low irrigation for this time I need the

low irrigation. But this type of time you can see it's very high value also this high value also this high value so this type of high value for for this time for my agricultural land or pro land I need the more demand of water but you can see for this time or for this time for this time it's very low case value is the low so this time I don't need for the high irrigation of my crop plant area so this is the overall scenario from where you can get the idea when mainly your uh irrigation schedule

We can get the idea about the irrigation schedule when you need the more crop demand of water. We can get the idea. So we can get the idea from here overall idea or overall data set from here. We can get from here. Okay. Okay. Any question you can ask me please? I I don't have s question maybe to maybe to help me to know if if I have I have I have CSV file of of of NDVI column and KC column in in Google column how can I >> okay okay understand >> okay very easy just you can see so I'll

show the random example uh I already have the CSV file in my >> yes random >> just so this is a CSV file Okay. Suppose this is the CSV file. So when you work with the CSV file, we need to import the another library. It's called the pandas. Okay. Pandas spd. So now I want to this file I simply copy just copy from the you can see the copy the path and I put the variable name suppose path and then store it this file in this path. Okay just I run. So now I want to read it. So take a

suppose I put the variable name is the TF. So df I call the PD dot read CSV. Okay. And this CSV is stored in the path. Just run it. So now I just call the DF and run. So you can see I can get the data. So now I want to work with suppose uh this S and this suppose uh suppose target or suppose this one or this slope any two column. So again there are the lot of column but I want to work only for the two column. So I need to simply separate the column. Suppose I take the one column as okay I simply call the S column. So just call

the df and put this bracket and call the s column name. Okay. So now what happened? Oh sorry. So df suppose I call the x I take the variable suppose uh s okay and call the df it show the dm tf and then I simply select the column name. Okay. So now I find out the S. Okay. You can say only for the S column I separate. Suppose I take the another column suppose sex just I simply separate column or CP. So for the CP what can I take the values of CP and then call the DF sorry call the DF and apply the column

name. column name suppose CP so now I just print the CP >> CP just I separate >> okay suppose I want to suppose this is it's my suppose independent and CP is the dependent so for the independent we need the reshape >> so just simply put the dot reshape function and apply minus one to one just make the reshape >> oh just >> reshape for independent dependent or dependent. >> Uh independently X variable X. Okay. >> Okay. >> For the reshape just a minute. Let me

check. I think for the rehab we need to import the numpy function. Okay. Array. Array. Array. Numpy array. Okay. So now you can see previous time we just simply apply the array numpy array and put the reshape. So in this case we need to apply the numpy array and also reshape. Okay. So just we simply put suppose dot or I just put in here suppose dot np array or is dot np >> sir. >> Yeah, >> you have to create a new variable. >> Yeah. Yeah. Suppose np array and I just call the case

and put the reshape. Okay. So now it's a reshape. >> Okay. >> So now it's the reshape. So now for the same process just simply apply when you work with the CSV. Hence you can get that >> if you don't then it not work. So this is the this is the all time old time basically when you work independent independent variable variable must reshape. Okay. Reshape. Reshape. Basically for the reshape we just make the 1D array 1D array 1 D array okay it must always okay for the

independent uh variable okay suppose X is independent so we you must make the 1D array but when you work with uh dependent variable don't need okay others keep the same process to work Hey. >> Okay sir. Thank you. >> Okay. Okay. So another thing is that we can also download the this type of Okay. This type of chart. Yeah. So this chat I want to download okay as a as a uh PDF or also uh JPZ format. So it's very easy just we can simply >> write the code suppose just take the new

cell or you can also click and save it easily but it's not the proper way. Okay. What's the property is that we simply call the plt dot save uh save fig. Save pig. Then simply define the location of your file. Suppose I want to uh I want to save it in my in this location. So you can simply copy any file path. Suppose just I copy this path and paste here. So from here I simply Okay. So look it's a default it's a default okay default if you don't mention any file any path it automatically save just simply define

the file name I put the file name suppose NDVI NDVI and KC chart okay then put the comma sign sorry put the comma sign and put the DPI resolution keep uh 300 okay and then run the value. Okay. So now this figure is saved in our in this folder. So now find out where is the save NDVC. Yeah. NDI case. You can see this is the result 5 second ago. Okay. So this is the way we can simply identify. Suppose when you put the PDF just simply change it. Uh okay just put here dot PDF okay or put JPG then we find out the oh sorry PNG

PNG okay then we find the PNG suppose PDF PDF and also put here when you put the PDF then also change it simply put here it's it show the result for BB box BB box in put here type. Okay. So now run the code. So now it's save. Okay. If you check it the PDF file, where is it save? NDI KC chart PDF. Yeah. So this one you can see the PDF file. Okay, we find out this PDF but why it's not showing the chart. Okay, BBX. Okay, this is the chart. Let me remove it. Or I need to run it before the flo. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry.

Okay. Before the plt show, you can put the saving code. Okay. So now check again. Where is it? Same. Yeah, this one. Now you can see we can get the chart. Okay. So before the PLT show, okay, before this code, simply write the save code or PNG or TF easy. Then it will be save as a PDF format. So I hope you'll get the idea how to save this file after making the chart and also PDF or JPG or PNG. So you also try. Okay. Okay. So I'll send you all of code. You try to practice also real data. Okay. Then it look more better or

perfect result. You can find out from here. Okay. So today is no more. I will send you all of those as soon as possible. >> Yes sir. >> Thank you. Have a good night. Bye.

Class 3

as I was just we talk about that sentinel cell one ser types prop type analysis analysis. Okay. So for that first of all um it's basically we find out this VV and VS polarization polarization and it's very sensitive to probe a structure to probe probe a structure also uh biomass and also soil moisture we can easily identify using the VBRVS and it's a high frequency this another benefit I revisit frequency okay basically in the 6 to 12 12 best. Okay. And and and another very powerful is that it's spin

peanut clouds. [snorts] So this is the best benefit to use the central monary data. Ideal for monsoon or cloudy region. You can easily use it. Okay. And we can also use it to make the your time series time series of profology analysis and also classification and crop mapping. These type of things we can easily use the singular one star data. So let us go. First of all, we need to define our study area. So take a variable suppose a y suppose I have a rectangle latitude longitude value. So I want to import. Okay. So for that you

can simply use the e dot geometry geo dot rectangle rect dot go okay let me check the function Okay. It is not this. Okay. you get free. Okay, just a minute. Okay, I think I need to reload this site again. Just a minute. It's not connecting the server. So that's why function is not showing the purple color. So take a variable a y e e do a now you can see okay e dot rectangle so now we simply define a list I take the 890 then 23.5 longitude latitude then put the longitude suppose 90.0 24.5.

So now let's say we try to show our study area map layer a and of the focus map dot center object object is a y and run the so this is our stud area suppose yeah so for this area we want to identify crop types using one data. So now further simply call the load the load the image collection. So for that simply copy this celebrate ID and paste and then give a name. Suppose I put the name is S1 and then filter for our study area. So for that just take a variable suppose uh put the filter bounce function with my

study area which is a then put the filter date. So I put the time suppose coping season. Okay. Suppose 2023 uh 06 01 from 2023 101. So proing season after that I want to simply filter the instrument mode. So just I put here the filter and put here earth engine filter dot equal. So I want to uh filter in instrument mode. So instrument mode in dr instrument mode. Okay. And put the iw iw. You can also get this type of information from here name as properties. So we can see instrument where is the instrument mode?

Yeah. In instrument mode. Yeah. So this one instrument we can use the IW interrometric wide swath extra wide swath and strip. So it is the IW. Okay. So it's very popular. we use all time interometric instrument mode. Okay. So after 22 need to filter the transmitter receiver. Okay. Transmitter receiver. Basically we try to select the band. Okay. So for that put here the dot filter art engine dot filter and this time I will filter list contains. So list contents and I want to list contents. I

just pull the transmitter receiver or check the bands image properties. You can check this transmitter receiver polarization. Then I put band name I put VV. Same also do for the same for the VA. Just I copy the same line of code and paste here and I put here that V. Okay. Transmitter receiver polarizer is set. And also put the your uh orbiting pass. Okay. Orbit pass. So put at the filter again and earth engine dot filter dot equal I want to put here orbit pass orbit properties passed. You can check

orbit properties passed it. Yeah, this one. So basically ascending descending. So I put the descending. Okay, descending. And finally we simply clip with our steady area just clip. And in this case you can see if I just use the clip it will be problem. You can see I'll show you the how many image first of all. So let's print S1 and apply the size function and run the code 36 image we find out. Okay, for this time and I want to clip all of image. Okay, so in this case you can see if I just

put the dot clip function and clip with AI it a problem. You can see we face a problem. Suppose I add the layer. So then it show a problem. map dot map dot add layer and call the S1 around the code. It's a problem. We find out this type of problem. Okay. So I want to clip all of images. Okay. I want to clip all of images. Suppose I have how many image? We check total 36 image. S1 dot size. So you can say how many image we find out. We find out for our total uh how many is this I find out total 36

images. So I want to clip all of images. So, so now what can you can you tell me what the function I need to use when I use the 36 image clip? Any idea? >> Sir, yes, we can use we can use median. >> No, in this time I want to without creating median mean or create without creating the composite we just simply click all of images. I have total 36 image. I want to clip all of images without creating median, mean or mosaic. >> Yes. >> So further we just create a function. So

in this time I create a function. This function help me to clipping all of images. So let's go try to create a function. So I want to apply the clip all of images. So we create a function. So I put the function suppose function keyword. I put the function uh value name is that um suppose I put the name is img and now what is my argument? My argument is that all of >> so that we simply take a variable. So I return I want to return this element clip with ai ai. Okay. And this is my function. This function I connect with

my collection 36 image collection for connecting user map function. Yeah, please. >> Function has no name. >> Please. >> The function created has no name. >> Why? >> Function argument. That function has no name. Maybe function. >> No function name. Okay. So now we try to use the same variable name. Okay. So you can see the same line of code we just connect with the same variable. So I create a function. So this is my function and I just connecting with this same variable just use the map.

>> So this thing basically storeed my collection 36 image collection and this collection I simply connect with my function. So now you can see without without clipping function I can add display my map. Okay. Show this type of map without P. If you check >> without median >> not median not median so it's just show all >> without compos >> without composite yeah without composite we just click all of images okay so now further if you check suppose I want to check the band specific bands

and then stressing suppose 98% and then apply so now we find out this type of image from here. So this is the one process without creating mosaic we can also use the clip function but for that we need to help of function because at the same time total 36 image I want to clip with my study area so that's why we simply create a function so now this image we need to pre-process pre-process basically uh speak filtering okay so it's called that speak filtering so let's try to discuss about that how we

can easily um filtering the image for signal 2. So pre-processing the image please. >> Yeah, please. >> We can also add the we can also composite the the 36 image proceed with the >> it is possible. >> Yeah. Same same same. >> Okay. >> Suppose after clipping after clipping you can simply apply dot median. So then it it it clipping all of 36 image and also create the medium composite. Okay. And when you already you done the clipping. So then after creating the

median don't need to use the clip because you already complete this process for clipping. >> Okay. >> Okay. So now we pre-processing the image. For that uh we need to sple filtering filtering or it also called the reduce noise mainly reduce noise pixel. Okay. And radiometric correction is already done. Okay. Radiometric correction is not need radiometric this calibration. radiometric calibration calibration done already done in GE okay so it's not need and also train correction sometime it

already applied okay so but when you work with other then need this type of correction train correction we need but this train correction already done in G so that's why not need to for the train correction so now we are simply convert convert to DB BB scale value. Okay. So if you check uh the bands so this type of bands value is simply convert into DV unit. Okay. So DV unit we need convert this type of band pixel value. So SPQL filtering and radiometric decibel radiometric calibration done

already done. Then train correction is already done. So now we simply applying the SPL filtering and also convert the DV scale. So for that um uh we just take a variable suppose to DB and then then we just call create a function. Suppose I put the function name is mg and put the bracket. So for that uh for the DV normally we are just take the value 10. Okay. So I return but this is the another process for the SQL filtering. So I hope you can also uh learn about the flood mapping in our seven number class. In the flood

mapping when I pre-process the sentinel data I try to add the full function for pre-processing the sentinal one data for the flood mapping when I discuss about that because flood mapping uh when I discuss then I discuss about that uh filtering okay very long code we need to add for the SPLE filtering but in this case we normally take the value 10 and then uh convert the DV okay so for that we simply put the return and e dot image I put the normal value 10 and this things. Multiply multiply multiply with image logarithm

log 10 and after that apply the copy pro properties and apply all of images and also image dot property property names. Okay. So this is the function. This function I want to connect with my uh image collection. So I put the variable S1 and then call this collection. I put the same S1. I take the same variable S1 and then put the dot map function and connect this function variable and paste here. So basically the normally we just use. So now we can extract the your uh different types of feature. Okay.

Suppose we need to extract the some pixel value such as VV or VS or VB by VS ratio. Okay. VB by VS ratio. So for that first of all we calculate the ratio suppose VB by VS. So take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is the ratio and I call the S1. I create a create a function suppose for that function keyword and I just I take the element image. So now what is my argument? I my argument is that I want to compute this ratio. So for that just take a variable. So I take a variable suppose VV and call the image and select

the band of VV. Take the another variable suppose V call the uh element name and select the B band and then we simply return what I return I want to return this uh BV divide with B. Okay. And then I re rename it suppose dot rename rename I put the name this band name is VV and VS ratio. Okay I put this type of name and this thing I want to apply all of those images. So put here at the copy properties copy properties and uh apply all of images and also mention image property names. Okay. So now it's a function. I

just simply connect with all of images. This is the S1. Just I copy and connecting with my function using map function. just put it the map and also close this parenthesis. So now you compute the ratio okay ratio and so now in this case we simply put our training data okay so in this time suppose for this place I have some training point so this training point I want to import if you want you can also import the CSV file no problem directly can simply click on and import the CSV file or if you want you can also take

the some point randomly you can write or also import the CSV file suppose I take a variable props So this variable I just put all of props I just create a feature collection. This feature collection I add some different feature of prop. So put here e dot feature collection collection. Okay. So in this feature collection I want to set some uh feature. So first feature. So put here E dot feature and I want to create a point of latitude longitude. Put here E dot uh geometry dot point. Okay. And I can put the latitude

longitude value. Okay. Suppose uh in this case I put the 89.5 suppose I randomly put but when you work you can just put the accurate data. So I put that suppose 89 suppose five longitude then I put here um suppose 23.9. So I point out this is the one crop and I put the uh property suppose I set the column name is the class this is the price. Okay. So same I create the another same copy this same line of code. So this is my training sample. So just I simply take the two training sample this time. But if you want you can also more

when you work with the practically. So I put this is the latitude longitude for uh 89.7 and 23 suppose I put the eight and I put the class suppose this is the class for uh whe so then you can put the other crop suppose rice sugar or different types of crop for with the different different okay so this is my uh feature collection okay this is my training sample for ground. So I just assigning the level for the different types of crop. So rice, sugar, can or wheat. Okay. So now we simply uh stack the feature. Okay.

Suppose we simply uh create the median composite. So just take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is uh composite composite and call the s1. Okay. And then apply I create suppose median median. And I want to add the bands. So whose band I want to create ratio. So this one I want to add. So for that just apply a function add bands. Add bands. Call this ratio. And for this band I want to create the also same median. So put at the median. Okay. So now let's check we try to display. Oh my god,

it show problem. Too many argument. Image dot upload the natural algorithm for the input. Okay. So I will try to show you the later for that proper way to compute the DBS scale. So now we try to compute the composite without DBS scale and we find out this type of median composite. So just I simply display Original display was BB VS ratio. So you find out this type of visualization just import. Okay. Okay. And if you check our training sample from here just add Okay. So suppose this is the random

training sample. We just put rice and weight. So this is our training sample. But when you work you take the more training sample from your CSV file or also take. So now we're simply applying the machine learning model and compute and it also more better if you want to classify other classes. Okay, same process I already show you this process in here. So simply separate some other classes suppose parent land, urban, water, forest or grassland. It will be more better for the crop types classification. Otherwise it it also

mixing. Okay. So now let's I'll show you that how we can easily apply. All right. So for that we find out this is our composite imagery. Okay. So now uh we need to uh create the training sample. Okay. So we need to start the pixel value. So take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is training and call this composite. So from this composite I simply store it the information using the sample regions function. Okay and put here sample regions suppose collection collection it's mainly your uh props

different types of props training sample collection and then put here uh your properties. So set the property properties property is the class okay because you can say I put the property name is the class it's our column name so after the property we need to set the scale scale is 10 m so for just print and check the training. So we can check we find out only to obtaining sample we just simply take the pixel value. So if you check five properties, we find out the VB, VS, angle, class and alpha

ratio. Okay, just simply add VS, VV, angle class and VS ratio for the two training sample. So this is my property. So I to use this type of property and then apply the machine learning model and then further make the classification. Okay. So other process keep the same same suppose for this same process we just simply apply create the classification okay create the model random forest or others and then we simply apply so let's go to show you that so for that uh I can simply uh get this type of s ratio so let me try to apply.

Okay. So after creating the data set further you can also spill the data. So spill data set. Okay. Suppose 70% and 30%. Okay. 70% data used for train and 30% for test. Same process. Okay. So now I just try to apply the directly I would try to apply the machine learning without spill the data. So you also try when you work with the main project simply spill the data set 70% 30% and use the 70% train your model and 30% data for test your model. So I directly apply the classifier or machine learning model. So I put a

dot um classifier smile random forest and I put random uh number of trees 100 and then train. So I train all of data. So call the feature feature basically this my training okay but when you work with the real project then try to spill the data 70% and 30%. and then just train and then put here class property property. I put the property name class then put the input properties. input properties uh input properties basically it's our band name and this band come from this composite all of bands okay basically v

I put here the band names band name so it means that all of bands indicating this composite have v angle class and also this type of thing we simply add this type of bands input properties as the bands so these are classifier so simply connect with our uh ims so create a variable that was classified classified and call the composite. So this is my composite and then connect using the classify function classify function classify with the classifier just copy and paste. So now for that just add the map layer

and display the result. Okay. And add the color zero uh and then max suppose. So we put the two class or three class that was rice then wheat and others. Okay. So we create this type of three class. Suppose I put the color plated. So then make the color. Suppose I put the green color for the rice and then we suppose I put the yellow color and others I put the blue color. So now let's check the result. What's the problem? So the class the class property is it found in the the training s the the data

source do you have class property >> this one? Yeah. >> Yes. Do you have that the variable that you created >> or we need to add the >> Yes. >> Oh, it's it's a features SS. Okay. Yeah. >> Okay. Okay. I have to just class of feature 00 invalid property exited floor type screen actual will rise okay so what's the problem okay it's it's work as a keyword suppose I put Uh so oops I put here the suppose um level level otherwise it work as a keyword

class is the another keyword suppose level and I want to do all of those using the level level. So level Yeah. >> Okay. Suppose for the rice I said the level is zero. Zero for rice. Okay. And wait for I said suppose one. >> Yeah. >> One. Yes. >> So now I hope it will work. Yeah. So >> yeah. >> Okay. So it show the color. Color is not valid CSS format. I think some mistake for the color. Oh, CR >> yellow color. So we find out this type of classification.

Okay. But it's not the properly. So it's a demo. But when you work with real data suppose when you add the all of data suppose all of training sample okay then I this code is also help you to generate but in this time we just only for you can also take the other class for the water body okay because they also have all the water okay and also take the all obtaining sample from the ground from your ground root data okay then further you also try to compare your results sir >> yeah please please

>> if now you don't have ground proof data you are not Now it is impossible difficult to use this sentinary one image for classification of pops or any len is it yes so this time in this time we are just using the ground root data suppose this is my ground root data okay so this is my ground root data but this data I imported uh your manually but this thing we also imported as a CSV file in here but in this guy put the manually and then run it Yes. >> Yes. What I mean? >> So without ground truth data it also

possible >> to identify the agriculture. >> Now now my question is >> what >> please? >> Cannot hear you. >> How now can you? Yes I'm hearing you now. My question is if I don't have now ground truth I want to train you how can you identify that this is this is this is this is certain feature using this image because in I can see by using maybe >> but one it is difficult to identify this is what this is >> okay so for that for that for that you

just simply use the same time period and take the multisspectral data. Okay, use the same time period or also increasing or decreasing time period and take the multisspectral sent two data and the sentinel 2 data just combine and take the training sample from the sentinel uh one data. Okay. So just add the layer add the layer for sentinel 2. Okay. And then in the sentinel 2 just use the different types of band combination and take the training sample from the sentinal one data. Okay. So we are just

use the sentel 2 data set as a overlay overlay with this map and then we simply take the training sample from one but we are just take the help of two data multisspectral data. Now what what if now if sent 2 is is is not available maybe due to the clouds effect because one of advantage one among the advantage of using sentinary one is it is it isable even it is free from clouds now if the sentinary one sent 2's optical image has now affected by clouds >> it is now impossible to use this is it

>> yes Yes. Yes. Yes. >> So I must have the help of of of vis of for spectral image. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. And you can also check suppose some visualization. Suppose you can see we can easily get this type of place is the water body or you can see this type of black color it show as a uh your trees. Okay. we can easily get some idea or if you check and you can also take the help of your satellite Google satellite that also help you so you can see it's a it's a show the buildup also

take it this type of pixel show the buildup okay just use some reference image Google satellite image also landset sentinel 2 and then help of them we can also get okay as well as this sentinel too we can also use f for your vegetation index suppose it's called that RVI. You can also use RVI. RVI um index for visitation sentinel one. Okay. So sentel one is the it's called the radar visitation index RVI. So help of the RVI we can also identify for the visitation area and if you check the RVI

formula I can see it also help you the different types of probe. We can identify or vi. So we need the VV and V spend. Let me show you in just a minute. Yeah, this is the formula. You can see this the RVI. It's called the R vegetation index RVI. So when you compute this formula we can easily get the vegetation and we can easily identify water and vegetation or tense vegetation. Okay. So if you simply show you the show you the code it's called the R visit.

Clas 4

Hi, good evening. Can you hear me? Hello. Good evening. Can you hear me? >> Yeah. How are you? >> I'm good. Good evening. >> Uh good evening. Yeah. So after a long time we'll meet. Okay. So hope everything is good from your side. Yeah. >> Yes. Yes. >> Okay. Thank you. Okay. So let us go. Uh today I discuss about that another agriculture precision topic. Mainly you already send me a paper about the crop coefficient. Okay. How we can easily identify. >> Yes sir. uh I try to discuss about this

topic how we can identify the pro coefficient using the linear model. Okay, then you can easily get the idea. Okay. So let me share my screen. Uh just a minute. Okay. Can you see my screen? Is it visible? >> Yes, it is coming. So basically today we discuss about this topic how to monitor the water demand of crops to estimate the crop coefficient using the Google Earth engine and basically when you work with the crop coefficient uh then first of all we need to create a model it's called linear

model. In the linear model, we just make the relationship with vegetation density, different types of crop and further we can easily identify the crop coefficient and this crop coefficient is very important in the agriculture precision because if the this value is the high it means that this type of probe need the water demand is very high. Okay. If the coefficient value is low, it means that water demand is not high as well as we can also get the agriculture or irrigation schedule. We can also identify using the KSC value.

Okay. So let's go try to explain all of those step by step then you can easily get the idea. So there are the lot of application such as special irrigation scheduleuling. We can easily get the idea the scheduleuling about the irrigation and also water use efficiency assessment we can also identify and also probe water requirement estimation we can also do and also integration with the ET models such as cel or metric or sop this type of model we can also integrate with the KC value okay so basically in the

interpretation suppose for the LDVI map it's a vegetation greenness we already know about that it's a vegetation greenness or we can also say that it's one kind of crop density okay suppose I have a crop field so here I find out some place is the high MDVI value it means that this place I find out the very high density of vegetation or based on greenness is very high okay or what is the KC KC map basically it estimate the water use coefficient okay map it's estimate the water use coefficient

higher KC value equivalent the higher evapo transpiration okay so if the value is very high it means that the higher evapo transpiration okay for the for this place for the sparse crop suppose which have the low NDVI value suppose 0.2 2 or less than 0.1 or 0.1 this type of uh low NDVI value or a sparse crop this KCI value is low we find out the low KCI value it means that this type of uh crop is not high above transpiration it's a low evapo transpiration and if the low evapo transpiration it means that there are

not must need the water water demand is low Okay, same just opposite for the dense canopy. Suppose I have a high or good crop plant or good density of crop plant. So here I find out the high NDVI value suppose 0.8. If the NDVI value is very high then KCI value is also high. Okay, because in the high NDVI value or dense crop plant have the higher evapo transpiration. Okay. Suppose I have a good field or I have a good uh crop plate. So this type of crop plate I find out that high NDVI. Okay. And if the NDVI value is

high then KCI value is also high because high NDVI value or dense NDVI or dense canopy this type of place I find out the higher above transpiration. Okay. So high KC value indicate the full canopy or high water demand crop. Okay. Suppose I just calculate the KC value and this KC value I find out some place is very high. It means that this type of prop needs the high water demand and if you check this is the formula about the KC. Okay. So here we find out that you can see uh this is the first formula ET C equal KC multiply with the

ET. So here ET ET basically crop above transpiration. Okay. And also uh etc. etc basically crop evopor transpiration. Then et zero zero basically difference evopo transpiration and KC KC basically crop coefficient. So now we can simply uh calculate this equation KC equal to crop above transpression divided by reference evable transpiration. Okay. Just we simply just ratio ratio of the crop above transpiration and also reference above transpiration then we find out the result of KC. Okay. So this is the basic

equation for the KC. Okay. But when you create in the remote sensing remote sensing we try to apply the linear model. So we simply find out the KC and also NDVI relationship in the linear model. Yeah please. Please >> please >> that participation is obtained from the the weather data from maybe the the what this climate or from this >> yeah so >> is that and what >> any we can also use >> okay >> and it is differentation >> it can be come from your weather data

okay suppose five reanalyzes This data we can also use for the as a reference data no problem. Okay. So there are the two >> and the crop what is the difference now between is a crop transpiration and reference evapo transpiration. >> Okay. Crop evapo transpiration basically for the crop only for the crop crop land suppose uh the crop land just transpiration transpiration from the water. Okay. Suppose we already know about that if you check I will show the some example then it will be more clear.

Suppose if you simply search here. Yes, >> the transpiration transpiration it's only happened for the crop land or agricultural land. Okay, transpiration suppose transpiration transpiration in plants. So you can see this is the example about the transpiration you can see. So this is the plant. Okay, this plant also you can see transparate some water. Okay, transferred some water. >> So it's called the ibabu transpiration. Okay, only for the trees. Only for the trees. So this is the tree. So this tree

also release some water. You can see this trees also release some water. Uh plant surface with stomata some water. So this water release. Okay. And it's one kind of uh your hydraological process suppose transpiration. So this transpiration is only happened for the plant or trees. So you can see this type of plants this type of tree release the water. Okay. It's called the transpiration. And when this transpiration simply connect with iapo evapo transpiration. Okay. So it's one kind of transpiration

only for the trees. But another transposure is also happened suppose for the weather from suppose ocean or uh normal water body or river or lake. So this type of place also evapor evaporated. Okay. And also release the water just make the uh condensation. Okay. So this type of water evapor and make the condensation. Now my question is >> is there any any satellite data source for for for transpiration and defense transpiration because I know the mod and climate maybe gives actual transpiration ATC. So

actual transpiration can be used as a reference or can be used as a group transpiration or there is a way to extract the actual transport to extract the group transpiration and referation from actual transpiration. >> Yes, we can also get it from here. Yeah. Yeah. Suppose in the satellite if you check we find out this type of satellite. Suppose one satellite um you simply search here suppose modisapo. So we can get you can see netu transpiration and also aua. So I simply se that and here we find out that you can see

this is the um it will only total above transpiration. >> Okay. >> Yes. Total above transpiration and this also you can see we can get the average latent heat flux which is the LE and you can see the total potential transpiration. >> Yes. >> Okay. PET PET. So this type of transfer you also get from here suppose I can this is totally transpiration the potential transpiration. Okay. So when you just subtract these two things then you can get the another transpiration. Okay. We also get also the data from

generate also from here >> of data. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Okay. As well as also get the some data suppose it's called the ER5 ER5 reanalysis data. But this data mainly it's not good resolution. Okay. It's a very when you want to work with the large area then we try to use this type of data. But for the modis we can also use for the small area because modis is more better than your 5D analysis data we can also apply no problem. >> Okay. >> Okay. So now we simply generate this

type of formula. You can remove this the popup window small popup window. Right. So here we find out that uh basically EC or KC KC basically propo transpiration divided by reference evable transpiration and this reference evable transpiration we can also get from different sources. If you want you can also use at the satellite source or if you want you can also use the weather data we can also collect the data. You can see there put the one example. So in the paper we should send me that use the

penman uh monitor this is one kind of source for the weather data to collect the reference of transpiration also collect from here and then KC case basically crop coefficient. Okay this is the formula about that. But in this case we try to make the relation with our crop. Okay, suppose and how uh in this case we apply the NDVI. Suppose I want to make the relation K C and N DVI. Suppose I have a value KC and NDVI. So now here I just apply the linear equation Y = MX + C. Okay, y = MX + C and then identify the

KC = identify suppose slope value. It's a slope value and it's a intercept value y = mx + c. So when I just generate this equation then we can easily get the case equation. Okay. So this case equation is simply multiply or connect with the ndvi basically simply multiply with the slope value and also intersect with the intersect value simply add then you can get the kc map. Okay. And how to build build your model. So now we talk about that suppose how I can build your own model. Suppose in this case we can get

the NDVI values from satellite imagery observe the our crop field. Suppose I have a crop field. So I can simply uh get the NDVI values for my crop field and further KC value. In the KC value you can also get the ground measurement KC value. It also possible you can also monitor the KC value from the ground from the ET data or you can also use the tab uh you can also send in your paper uh the AO 56 table adjusted for your condition. So if you check this paper you also use it paper this is the formula case estimated from

this. Okay. And you can see from the FAO table they also get this data. And this is the formula. Okay. ETC equal to ET 80 into KC. So from here they find out the KC value or cofficient value and you can see the they also get the uh KC is ratio of the ETC. Okay. And the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization established the table of KC for the different crop. Okay. So this it's the established data. Okay. So we can easily use it for our any this data because it's provided the food and

agriculture organization or or FAO. Okay. They already provide some table KC data for the different crop. Okay. Which is considered an important tool to estimate the KC. So now we can easily get suppose I have a rice, I have a craw, I have a petty. So they also give this type of crop plant a specific crop plant there they give the case value. Okay. So now suppose I I already have the case value and I already have the NDVI value. So now what can I make the process? So we are just make the linear

model. We just create the linear model. And how I can get the case value? Casey value it provide the food and agriculture organization establish table of case for the different crop. Okay, we can get the data from here and then we also use it for our specific crop. Suppose in this case there is the location area. So this is the crop plant. So in the crop plant they have you can see the wheat uh potato and sugar bit. So this type of crop plant. So this type of individual crop have a different case value and this case value

they collect from the food and agriculture organization established data set they also collect from here. So now further they make the linear relationship and make the um analysis okay so so now how I can make the relationship about that. Okay we'll also discuss about that then you can easily build build your own model. So in this case our main target we try to create. So you can see they are put the this type of value. So for this time they get the NDVA value and also get the KC value for the W for the

different time sugar bit and potato field they also get this type of data. So now this type of data they use and make the relation. You can see in the relation basically this is the slope value and this is the intercept value. Just simply apply the slope and inter pill and then make the model. Okay. And then make the model. So now there use this model and and make the KCM map. Okay. So let's go try to discuss about the how we can create this also you can see this is the linear relationship about this model and also calculate the

R square value relationship about that. Uh okay. So let's try to discuss about that how we can easily create this type of model. So now we can easily use here the Python because we can easily apply the linear model using the Python uh for the two data set. Suppose in this case NDVI and KCI value we simply apply this model and make the linear model or linear equation for the NDVI and KC value. So let's go. So for that okay let me open my code editor. So you can easily use at the uh just open your terminal.

Okay let me open from here >> sir. >> Yeah please. In that ter in the terminal that you have opened in when I I I installed that anaconda I have two terminal command prompt terminal and I have the ter you use anaconda prompt you can use the uh yeah terminal for the anaconda terminal because >> we normally two terminal you find out one for the your computer okay another is for the youronda terminal so you just because we just installed all library in the Anaconda distribution. So simply open the

Anaconda prompt or Anaconda terminal. Okay. So in this terminal I simply active my um active my library or active my cond. So simply write here activate >> environment. >> Uh just put the environment. My environment name is that go AI. So I already show you that how we can really make the environment and also install the package. So just I simply open the GI. So because I already installed all of those. So now I just simply open my Jupiter Jupiter lab in here. So Jupiter Jupiter lab just I open

sorry I put the equal sign Jupiter left. So now it's open a uh workbook. So just I open the new notebook. So just I or I write I I write the code in here. It doesn't matter. Just I import the new cell. Okay. Just I start from here. So now first of all I need to import some important library. Okay. Which I need to make the model. Okay. Just I simply import some library to perform the analysis of linear model. So basically we need the one library import uh numpy numpy as np I put the name and also

import the mplot li to display the chart. import m plot library dot piplot piplot as plt and also import we also put the linear regression model. So the from uh I put here skarn dot linear linear model and import this model. It's called the linear regression. Linear regression. Linear regression. And finally you also made the another one uh it's called the uh escore or skarn matrix. We try to check for the accuracy. So skarn dot matrix import rs² value. So just put the RS RS score just simply import.

Okay, there is no problem. It means that our all of package is successfully installed. Okay, in our system I simply imported all of those. Now take the new cell. So in this new cell uh in this case suppose I already have the NDVI value and also have the KC value for individual crop plant. Okay I already have. So in this case I simply randomly import this type of NDVI value and also KC value. I simply import because suppose I already have this type of value. So I take a variable suppose NDVI and just I simply make a array.

For the array we need the numpy library. So I call the np dot array. I just make a array and store it all of ndvi value for a specific crop plant. Suppose 0.23 suppose this is my NDVA value for the specific crop plant. Suppose I have the another one 0.5. Suppose I have another one 0.56. Suppose I have another one 0 um 68 suppose >> but if I have them I have them in CSV file and import CSV file is it? Yeah, yeah. Suppose I have a CSV file all of data. I have a two column. Suppose one column is stored for NDVI another column

for the KC. So we can simply import the CSV file and then also work no problem. Yeah. 074 suppose then I put here the 0.78 then put here suppose um 0.81 then put here suppose 0.83. So I simply imported NDVI. And now for this NDVI for this place or for this field what is the case value I simply import the Ky value all of Ky value. So I simply put the uh KC equal NP dot array and same process I simply import the uh your KC value suppose for for this first NDV I find out the case value suppose 0.20

for the first crop of land or crop of area. Suppose this is a potato or this is a sugar can or a specific any other crop. And then suppose I find out the another 0.77. Suppose I find out the another one uh 0 uh 62. Suppose I find out the another one suppose 1.0. Suppose I find out the one uh 1.02. Okay. So then I find out suppose 0.96 >> yeah please >> I'm just asking ask you a question myself that if the aims of this model is to estimate is a KC value is it >> okay so in this time this KC value we

can also measure from our field okay suppose for the specific geol location >> okay for the specific crop and area suppose I have already suppose NDVI and same same pro plan or same area we also compute the NDVI value >> 0.23 23 or 0.5 and same place we try to check what is the KC value we simply measured the KC value >> so now my target is that I want to predict the KC value based on the NDVI so I make a relationship KC and NDVI so in this case we try to make the y = mx + c so we try to put uh y = mx

+ c it's called the linear equation in this linear linear equation here y is the case value. Okay, y is the case value. Y is the case value and M basically slope value and X basically NDVI value and I already have the NDV suppose I have NDVI map. So this NDVI map how I can convert into KC map. So the for this we need to apply the linear model Y= MX + C. Here y is different. Y is different and x is independent. Okay. And I want to predict the y. y basically kc. So we can simply write y equal to suppose kc. K equal

mult* n dvi. Okay. Plus c. So now this is my target. I want to compute this equation. And in this equation I want to identify for M value and C value. Okay, from the linear model I just identify M value and C value. So further this M value and C value I want to apply on my NDVI map and then I can easily get the KC map. Okay. So our main target is that we just make a equation. Okay. And how I can make this equation? We can just use this data NDVA and KC data and make the linear relation y = mx + c because m and

c basically slope value and c value is same. Okay, M value and C value is the same for any any data any data point we find out the M value and C value is the same but this NDV value is the different different and if the NDV value is changed then KC value is al also changed. So in this equation in this equation if I know the C value and I also know about the M value and I already have the NDVI value then I can easily predict the KC value. Okay, I can easily predict the Ky value and this Ky value I can easily this

equation is simply interpret with my uh NDVI equation and I can easily predict the Ky map and from the case map we can easily get the different information suppose high transpiration uh for the highbo transpiration indicating about that high water demand crop plant okay and low KCI value indicating about that low water demand crop plant we can easily get the idea not here. Okay. So now we get this equation and now we try to compute suppose in this case uh it's independent and it's dependent. Okay. It

this is the independent and independent always will be one dimension. Okay. It's always one dimension. If you check suppose if I just print NDVI just I print. Okay. Let me run it again. just run and also print the NDVI. So we find out this type of dimension array it create the NDVI value but when I reshape it suppose I put the reshape value reshape into minus one to one just shape and now if I just run so now you can see it show this type of dimension okay so you always remember that independent variable independent so

In in this case x is independent. Okay. And for my equation ndvi is the independent and indep independent of variable always is the one dimensional. And how I can make the one dimensional just use the reshape and use the minus one to one. Then it just show this type of dimension and KC is the dependent. It's not need to change. We just keep the same. If you check the KC KC and run it. So we can get this type of value. Okay. not need to change anything but independent so NDVA is the independent variable so that's why

simply reshape it okay otherwise KC is not need because we predict the case okay so now we simply make the fit linear regression okay so we just simply call the linear regression model so for that I take a variable suppose model this variable I simply import my I already import the one model you can see linear regression model just I copy and paste here okay I simply call my model linear regression okay so now this model I want to train with the data NDVI and KCI data so how I can train for the train just call the

variable name model and apply the fit function for train this model. Okay. So I just call the NDVI and also call the KC. Just I simply put the two column in my CSV file which is stored the data NDV and KC. Just I run it. So now this model is training. And now I can easily identify the coefficient and intercept. If you check just call the model. Suppose I take a variable a equal I call the model. From this model I want to check the cofficient value. So just apply the function co e f cofficient coefficient

underscore and put the zero. Okay. So now you just run the code. So now this a value if you check the a value it show the one kind of value 1.45. So this is the coefficient value. Okay. Or it's called the slope value. We find out the slope value. this type of sol. >> So now we want to identify suppose uh intercept intercept value for the same same process just take the another variable and call your model and from this model I want to identify intercept intercept and run it and also print the

b value. So we find out this is the intercept value we find out in here. Okay, this is the intercept value we find out in here. So now I just simply identify uh coefficient value and interested value. So now I want to check for r² r² value from my model and I want to predict. Okay. So let's we try to take the another variable or square suppose I just call the R2 square library function and just put here the KC okay KCA and then put here that call the model model dot predict NDPI just run it.

So now we just print the equation. Suppose print the final equation. Suppose I just write the notation. Suppose equation equation uh KC equal a a it's come from a value and I take the three digit after decimal three digit okay this value just multiply with NDVI okay and plus intercept so I just simply define the intercept value so it's come from the B variable and I take the three three floating number or three decimal number okay so equation is simply print. Okay, just run it. So I can say we find

out this type of equation in here. So we find out KC value. You can see this is the M value and this is the slope value. We find out in here. Okay. This is the M value and this is the slope value. Okay. And I already have the NDVI value. So now I can easily predict the SC value. So it's one kind of equation. As well as if you want you can also make the um R value. You can just print for the R square value. Uh just print suppose uh coefficient coefficient of determination. coefficient of determination

it's R² value R² value and this values come from this variable R square variable so R2 variable and I take the first uh three floating number So run it. So we find out you can this R square value we find out that and if the R square value is the more strong it means that your data sheet is more accurate your accuracy is also more accurate. Okay. And if the value is the low or negative negative mainly just we find out the vice versa and if negative positive value a strong relation we find out the strong relation. If you find out

the positive value and if the square value is the zero it means that no relation. So we find out the strong relationship in our data set and this type of things we can also just make a plot and display the result. So how I can make the plot for the plotting um just simply just call the plt.pipt I just call the plt and apply the scatter. I made the scatter of NDVI data and also KC data. KC data >> just run the code. So you can find out this type of chart. If you want you can also make the more style you can just

make the fitted line also. Okay. So I just put here suppose uh color I put the color as a uh suppose green color. Then I put here suppose I can also add the label label I put the label suppose label title I can suppose observe. Okay. And if you want to also put the fitted line. So for that plt dot plot call the NDVI then just apply the model predict and I put the color Take all bread. I put the level suppose it say fed line. So we find out this type of fitted line as well as we can also added suppose uh pl

x level and add the x level title suppose I put that say x ndvi and also plot >> Y level I put that say prop coefficient Enter or then we just add the title plt dot Title put any title I put the title suppose linear relationship or relationship between between NDVI and SC then also add plt listen you can also add the listen of the chart And you can also apply PLT dot grid just add the grid just put the true boolean operated true and also plt dot show and then run it. So like we find out this all of those is added in our title

also add the X level Y level title. Okay. Then we can easily get the observe and also fitted line. Okay. And this is our main equation y = mx + c. So now how I can use it? Suppose I just generate this type of linear model. And now this model how I can implement on my data set. Okay. And then identify of KC map. Okay. So that we have just uh come to the Google coating our model use the NDVI data and also use of the KC data. simply use and then identify cofficient value and also identify intercept value.

So now we can simply apply >> sir. >> Yeah please. >> Is it possible to to to to export this graph as PDF image? >> Yeah, it also possible >> from the editor. >> Okay. Or you can also download the uh PLC file format or also download the PDF file format. Okay. >> Okay. And you you may you may try maybe to show me later on when we have this data in the CSV both two columns of KC and DVI. >> Yes. Yes. and show me later. >> Okay. Okay. So now we try to check how we can

easily add this model. Uh suppose I find out this type of equation. I want to apply this equation on my model or prof field model and then identify for KC map. Suppose this is my study area. Okay. Suppose this is my study area. So I just I use this place different types of crop NDVI value and also KC value suppose I just have. So now I just apply the KC map for my place and identify which crop plant need the more water demand. More water demand means that it the more evapo transpiration. Okay. And what is the

transpiration? Evapot transpiration mean release of water. Okay. Release of water. So suppose I find out this pl this crop plant have the more evapor transpiration. It means that this crop plant area need the mass water demand this crop plant because their evapo transpiration is very high. Okay. So it's mass more water demand is more water for this type of uh crop plant. Okay. So let's go try to uh identify. So now first step is I just I already take the study area because I just collect some data from here NDVI data.

So you can also place any types of propane area no problem. So first step we need to call a satellite data. So from this satellite we just simply calculate the NDVI. So in this case it also better we try to apply for signal 2 because it's the high resolution. We then get the more better map. So I just apply um Sentinel to I just I simply search for go to the browse data catalog and then import your data set and it work to multi speaker instrument. ment and if you check I want to work with suppose surface reflectance data

just copy the snippet ID. So now we simply uh load satellite imagery. Okay. You can also apply the landset also. Same process or any other satellite images. I just simply import and give the variable name suppose s2. Just simply put here uh filter bounds with my stud area a filter. So I take the data suppose year of 2024 or for the pro season area or I put here suppose 2025 1st January fall year of 2025 03 31. So I take this type of this is the pro season area for any specific agriculture season. Let me simply put

the time and now filter. I want to filter suppose cloud cover e dot filter dot less than. So just put here the uh uh image property. I choose suppose cloud pixel percent. Just copy the property name and paste here. And I put the value. Suppose I take the uh 10% right. So now let's check how many measures are available and run the okay. So we find out the 28 images for this place between this time period. Okay. So now in this case first of all we try to identify NDVI. We just make the NDVI and then when I get the NDVI

then I can easily apply the KC function. Okay. Basically this uh this equation I simply apply in my model. So let's go. So how we can apply it? So in this case I want to create the NDVI map for every image. Suppose I have total 28 image. So I want to create the NDVI map for every single images not create the median or mosaic. I don't use the mosaic color. So I create the NDVI for every images. So how I can do it? So for you need to apply the function. So we create a function or we create a tool. So this

tool help you to compute NDVI for every single images. So let's go try to create a function. So just I put the function keyword and I put the element name suppose img and I put my argument. What is my argument using this element? So my argument is that I want to make NDVI. to take a variable suppose NDVI equal. Uh if you check NDVI equal I just put here call the element and apply the normalized difference between two band for sentinel 2 near infrared B8 and B4 and I rename it dot rename. I put the rename as the handi. Okay. So

I find out the NDVI. So now I want to apply this model. So in this model um if you check we find out this type of equation uh this type of equation you find out in here but in this paper we just use this model. Uh if you check this there use the equation. So in this time I just take the manually value. So that's why you find out but I want to use it. Okay I want to use this model. But how we can create just apply your real data. So when you work with the real data just apply this uh this process okay then we

can easily get the slope value and intercept value. So in this case I want to apply this equation and then I want to identify for the case. Okay but when you work with the real data then try to apply the same process then we can get the more better result. Okay. So let's go try to apply this model which I gained from this research paper. Suppose in this time they are use this equation KC KC value equal 1.259. So this is the slope value. This slope value multiply with NDVI result. So take a variable

suppose KC equal I just call the NDVI and it's multiply with this value. So this is the slope value and add with intercept value. Intercept value will basically 0.034. So this is the C value and then we just put the rename function. Rename I put it it's a CI or cing. Okay. So now I have a question >> please. >> I have a question please. is those NDVI values that we have used to calculate the slope and intercept are different from this NDVI that we have created from this image are

different if difference the area also are different value of the same stud >> okay so it also >> you get my question >> yeah I got your question so in this time this model linear model it's basically uh not much vary for the similar prop. Okay, suppose this is your place. Uh you can suppose this is the place I just get the data for the suppose sugar can I want to cultivate the sugar can in the other place. So I can also use this value if not much more difference we don't find. So almost similar we find

out okay and you can also use >> my question is >> I'm just confused with the the data the NDVI value because this slope and and intercept we have got them from the NDVI value is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And also here in Google engine we create the NDVI value using this sentinary tool is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So basically we identify case KC this KC value we identify based on the NDVI value. >> Okay. >> Yes. >> Yeah. So I have a NDVI map. Okay. And I

already KCI value is limited. Suppose just I have the KCI value only for this specific crop plant area. But NDVI value or NDVI map I find out for the whole study area from my satellite imagery. But KC value I have the some specific crop plant area. Okay. So what can I do? I simply use this same area. I want to identify NDVI value. Okay. Suppose you can see in our uh in this notebook you can see suppose I have this KC value. So for this KC value what is the NDVI value I simply gain. So what is the case for

this KI case value what is the NDVI I can gain. So for this KCI value what is the NDVI value? Okay I have this type of value. So now from between this type of value NDVI and KCI simply make the linear model and identify for the KC. Okay, based on the NDVI. So in this case, NDVI is the independent and KC value is the depend because Ky value is depend on the NDVI value and I already have the NDVI for all of place but KC value I don't have all of so that's the reason I just use the NDVI and predict

the KC value. Okay. For the whole study area or whole all of prop area. Okay. Okay. So let's go. I just show you the result then get the bit area. So now I simply so this equation we simply collect from our uh from our linear model. Okay. So this equation it's come from the linear model. Okay. And how we can make the linear model? So for this linear model we need the ground truth KC value and also have the how I can get the NDVI value. We can easily get the NDVI value. Okay. Suppose uh if you

simply make the NDVI map. Suppose this is my one training sample. This is my another training sample. So I can easily extract the NDVI for this type of place. Suppose this is my station. Okay. So I simply visited this type of point and I just storeed the NDVI value orate the KC value. Okay. from the field and then I simply come in the Google Earth Engine and further I also extract the NDVI value for this type of place and generate this type of data. Okay, for this suppose for this for this K for

this coordinate we find out this KC value and also find out the NDVI value for the similar coordinate I find out the KCI value and also find out the NDVI value just we make the data set. Okay, for the similar coordinate or similar point and further we just make the linear model and this linear model I find out the equation linear equation. So this linear equation we just use and predict the KC for the whole study area. Okay. All of prop area. Okay. So now we simply apply this KC. So we are just returned return this uh

image add bands add bands of uh NDVI and also add bands of SC then apply the copy properties. So copy copy properties this element and system. So now what happened if you just simply print uh s2 all of image. Oh so this is the function we need to connect with our collection. So for the connecting just use the map function. So put the dot map bracket start and close the bracket. So now run the code. So now every image it compute the NDVI and KC uh for the problem. No, we just use the Okay. So now if you check

we find out the result all of images compute KC and NDVI. Okay. We compute the KC and NDVI. Okay. >> Oh now now sir I understand. >> Yeah. Now we used to calculate slope and intercept not from all but we pick only the some point is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. >> But in this in this it means the whole stud area. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because K value is not have all of area. I have some few case value but NDV is available for the all of area. we can easily collect from the satellite but KC value is for specific

station area. >> Okay. >> So you must have you must have DVI in the same area which you have the KC. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. >> So in other area that you don't have KC value that's now we come now to estimate now from this >> from this model. Okay. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. So now this model is easy estimate suppose other place suppose I don't have the case value for this pro plan area. So then it's easily predict by the slope and intercept just use this

linear model and then predict >> the case value. >> Okay. >> So that means it is impossible now to estimate KC value if you don't have the the ground truth of sum of the area of KC. You must have at least some point of KC is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And this KC value we can also generate from not only for the alltime ground suppose you can also use some reference data suppose in this paper they use at the for the individual crop suppose for the wheat or sugar bit or potato that use some data it's

collect from the food and agriculture organization okay table you can also go to the website then you also get the some data from the individual crop have the individual case value okay it's the established data you can also use it as well as if you want you can also So get some source data. Suppose mod is uh we can also get from the KC data also get from the modis uh evable transportation. From this type of data set we also collect the uh KC data. Okay. But it also better if you if you have the

chance to collect the data from the ground it also more better or you can also use the food and agriculture table data. We can also get the data from here for the individual crops. I I I I was that those

Class 5

Okay. So you find out you can see this is the harvest radius. So this place this type of this layer I just open only one. So this type of place is the harvest readiness place. Okay. This type of place harvest readiness place. You find out then this is the compare NDVI. Okay, NDVI present and pre can also compare and paste like stress. We find out this type of map for the past like stress. If you check the color, so here is the high and here is the low. So red is the high best stress and blue is the low best

stress. And finally irrigation priority. So you find out this type of color is indicating about that more irrigation priority if you check the color. So it's it's the high irrigation priority the low irrigation priority this type of it's so now how I can create this type of things I try to explain about the method. Okay. So first of all we simply define our study area then we simply just uh put the time period season then apply the same process just compute the uh NDVI and also uh just use this code to remove

the cloud and h and we just make a function okay just we make a function. So this function further we simply connect with our uh with our collection. So this is my collection I simply connect using the map function. Okay. So I simply connect these things with my map function. After that we simply count how many image is available. We find out 86 image. Okay. Then it's not needed. It just show the Okay. Then we simply >> what is that? Sorry sir. Sorry sir. >> Yes. I alorism. >> Okay. So in this time so this thing is

is need suppose there is no image. Suppose in this time we find out zero image or null image. Then it just try to check these things. Okay. Okay. It just you can check uh it show the result. Okay. We find the same you can see effective count 86. Okay. Same image collection. Suppose I find out that is null image. Then we try to use these things. Is there really some image is available or not. Okay. We try to check it and you can see it also increasing the cloud level 80%. We try to check it but it's not the effect but same process

to check the images. Yeah. So now we find out this we can put NDVI and also compute the NWI. So we just simply compute average NDVI and average NWI. I already make the code. You can see I already calculate NWI and NDVI and connecting with my collection. So I simply call the collection is these things. I simply call and simply calculate the average and also calculate the average for NWI. Simply calculate and then calculate uh LST. Okay. And compute the LST. Okay. And this LS2 we simply convert into your

uh repro the stall and also convert into 2.73°C. Okay. And then we simply calculate the soil mer share also. Okay. This is soil merch share and compute the soil mer share and further we simply compute the average soil merch share. Okay. And also talk take about that transpiration transpiration data. Okay, basically ET or Eva transpiration data we also use in here for that ETO transpiration. Okay, we find out the 15 minutes and now we calculate the sum okay total transpiration okay calculate the total

transpiration and then we just use algorithm. So in this algorithm we define the size greater than zero and also multiply this value to basically these things it's reproed the scale value of transpiration okay and then finally click with the study area so now we find out this type of data suppose transpiration data LST data or also other data we need to normalize okay self safe self normalize 0 to one so for that we simply take the three argument image region and fall back okay so these three argument I

simply put and just I compute the function okay so using for LST we take the percentile 95% we take and compute okay and then I simply apply this algorithm for the 95% uh percentile for each data okay and then you can simply put the fallback 0.5 we put in here and then we take the NDVI this is my function variable name I apply the NDVI mean this is my study area this is my all back 0.5 and same process all of those and now for irrigation priority map how I can create so for that high ET plus low soil moisture

plus low NDVI okay so this thing suppose if the high ET value higher respiration value then low soil moisture value and low NDVI value it's indicating about that high higher priority of irrigation. Okay. So if the high value of evapor aspiration, low value of soil moisture and low value of NDVI, it's indicating about that higher priority of irrigation. So just we simply call this I simply call the ET. Okay. So again transpiration is simply normalized because I don't add in here. So again I

simply call the ET. I call the function. I call the ET sum. This is my field and this fall back. So simply just apply this formula. Okay, apply this formula and then we put the itrigation priority and then we simply check this type of result for the irrigation priority. So we find out this type of color is the low priority. This type of color is the high priority. Okay, because this type of place is the low ET value. Suppose if you check suppose this type of map just click on here. So we find out the low exper value

for this type of map and then low soil moisture value okay and find out that low NDVI value for this type of place. So that's why it's the higher priority of irrigation. Okay. And finally we simply add this type of map and then pesticide pesticide target mapping. So basically stress not explained by water. Okay. NDVI drop with normal and NO and LST. So that's we just identify plasticized. So water stress we try to identify. Then canopy stress. So then further simply subtract the canopy stress and water

stress. Okay. Just simply subtract. Then we find out the pest like score. Okay. Or where you need the pesticide. So then basically water stress canopy stress minus water stress then we find out that pesticide like score. So where you need the pesticides. So this thing we simply add in here. So you can see the pesticide like stress. So we find out this type of place is the highest stress of the pesticidized. Okay >> sir. >> Yeah. I think this mathematical methods of of identifying water stress maybe the

elegation priority stress those are the mathematical equations is it? >> Yes. Yes. It's mathematical equation. Okay. So this is the mathematical equation. So first of all we just compute the water stress and canopy stress. So water stress when you just simply subtract the canopy stress minus water then we find out the pesticide stress. Okay. >> Yes. >> Then we find out. So I think I think it will be better for me and easy to learn if those mathematic formula >> will be written maybe in a PDF or in a

slide you like those formula >> so that when I I I read this code >> yeah so I will send you some reference paper about that okay suppose this type of paper yeah it's also available in the research paper also this type of formula >> okay or also some also some academic book is also available for the precision agriculture so Then you then you can easily get this type of formula or this type of interpretation. You can easily get from this type of book. >> Yeah. >> Okay. You will send me even the book so

that I can understand those questions. >> Okay. >> Okay sir. Thank you. Go back to your computer. Okay. Now it's okay. Okay. So now it's connecting my chart here. Yeah. So now we find out this type of place is the best luck is very high. So now we try to identify for harvest readiness. Okay. Harvest readiness how we can easily identify. Suppose if you check this is the this this is the layer about that. So this type of place or this type of place is the harvest readiness place we can identify. So how

I can do it? So for that uh we just uh apply a another things suppose we simply define a date. Okay for season in season on end s o e s o e basically season on end and present start and prevent start suppose I take the advance minus 21 and now advance -42 days. Okay. So precend start and prevent start we take and also take the now. Okay. So basically it also define on the crop calendar also - 21 day or - 42 day. Okay. For harvest we also get the recent start or prevent start. So in this case I take the -21

and - 42 and NDVI recent we compute and also NDVI prevent we compute and also NDVI delta. and delta basically NDVI recent minus NDVI prevent then we find out the NDVI delta okay so now from the NDVI delta we just take the value less than0.08 08 okay and it's indicating about the harvest ready okay so now what is the method this method is that we need to set the recent start date suppose I take the minus 21 days and prevent start date advance - 42 days and then we simply compute the uh NDVI for recent recent start and now

okay you can see now basically this and select the NDVI and compute the median and clip with my study Yeah. So, NDVI prevent. Okay. Same process for the NDVI delta. NVI delta basically subtract the NDVI recent and NDVI prevent. Okay. Then we take a threshold value and then identify for the harvest ready study area. So, we find out this type of place is ready for harvesting. Okay. And finally, okay, it's not need. Then we simply export all of those together. Suppose all of this map. Okay. for zoot file format and represent

in our research paper or presentation. So this is the way we can easily identify for harvest readiness then paste luck stress and irrigation priority okay for any crop plant or any study area. So then fine. Okay. Okay. So now we talk about that another things it's called the SOS POS and US. How we can identify this type of debt. Okay. So it's one kind of phological model. Okay. Phenological model. We we we find out the uh crop calendar idea. Okay, crop calendar idea. Suppose this is my crop plant. So I simply use this

function to remove the cloud and h just I create a function for make the NDVI. Okay. And connecting with my image collection. So this is my image collection. I simply connect the these things and also connect these things. Simply connect and then I simply okay it's not need it's not need it just simply check the image size. Yeah. and also compute the modis okay modice I simply take the modis ndvi also so this is the modis ndvi data and for the okay you take the ndvi algorithm okay basically this algorithm

if it just try to check if the image is available or not okay otherwise it's also okay there is no problem okay and further we simply take the field simplify 30 okay and get the NDVI average result and image with NDVI mean it's calculate how many image you can see image with NDVI mean we find out this is the image so now we pick of season okay peak of season POS peak of season this is the date about the peak of season okay so now how I can compute this date I also discuss about that peak of season so for

that we simply NDVI with stats we compute the NDVI And then we simply call this NDVI with stats short with NDVI mean and take the first I take the first date first basically first item and first item it's indicating about the pickup season pickup season you find out from in here and this first item further is simply just simply just display the result in here peakup season. So this is the peak of season. Okay. Basically this date when you make the time series chart suppose crop growth where is the crop

growth or grow growth? Yeah, this one basically this time okay suppose spot that POS is the January 30 peak of ST is the January 30 and if you check this this value is the negative it's not the crop peak of ST because there is no crop negative then we find out but when you check we find out this is the peak of ST peak of ST January 30 okay this things this value basically it's calculated in here this this peak of ST simply calculate in In this code it's called the POS. Where is it? It's called the POS. Okay.

P uh peak of ST we simply calculate. Then we calculate the maximum NDVI. Okay. So it's called the uh maximum NDVI because if you check in the chart in the chart we find out that maximum NDVI so it's called the high st of crop NDVI so for that we also calculate the date we can also get the date from May 24 but this type of date we can also compute using the formula so for that you can see I just calculate the maximum NDVI Okay. And compute the maximum NDVI and also apply the threshold value. Okay. So in this time I

take the threshold value and suppose greater than zero and it's EOS basically end of season. Okay. End of season we find out the date if you check we find out the maximum NDVI 0.6 and SOS this is the end of season. End of season basically your last time period you find out in here last time period. Okay. Last time period basically harvesting time end of season harvesting time. Okay. And you can see just simply label all of those and this is the peak stage of the NDVI and this result it show only for that

specific marker. So this for this for this land for this land we find out this type of result. Okay. So I take the field if you check it January 1. January 1, 2023. So you find out This one season of start. Season of start. Okay. SOS mainly season of start. Season of start. So this is the season of start. We can find out. You can see also from here. Okay. Then it show the peak of ST. Peak of ST. POS 23 25 peak of ST 25 21. What's 25? January or 25 uh okay Mars March 25 March we can see pick of st it's the

highest maximum value and finally we find out the another one it's called that end of season 25 December 25th December it's it's the end of season 25 December this is the end of season okay end of season so basically it's called the phenological model. This phenological model date, POS, SOS, SOS basically startup date. Then POS pickup st and finally EOS end of season. So this date we can also compute from the crop growth monitoring. Suppose just make the chart and we can easily identify this type of things. In this

case if you check peak of ST uh season of start in the January 30 then peak of ST the highest value. Okay. then find out that this this one is the end of season because you can other is the not the crop it's a negative value. So this type of information you can also get from this type of chart also but it's computed theoretically okay it's this this code help you compute this type of value theoretically Q date okay or POS date or SOS date it compute the in here okay but we can easily get this type of

phological start of season peak of season end of season from the graph of NDVI or any other other indexes EVI we can easily get the idea. Okay. So you can also export this type of result as a CSV file also. This type of SOS, POS and US data. We also export it as a Okay. So basically this is the process. Okay. So today I discuss about the lot of topic. So I I also send you some book about the agriculture precision. You also try to read it. Then you get some theorical and further you also try to practice this type of code.

Okay. >> Yes, sir. Yes, sir. >> Okay. So, today Yeah, please. >> But you you said about that I I asked you about if you remember about the issue of banana banana plantation here. >> Okay. And you suggested that you have to use you suggested to use maybe the the DS method the app. >> Okay. Yeah. >> Okay. Okay. So >> you said we >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So I'll try to create this type of method and try to explain for the next class. So this is

the way for the croial prediction using the ground proof. But when you don't have the ground proof then how we can easily make. So I also discuss in sh class about that then you can easily get the idea. I'll try to make it the material for this course then you can get the idea. >> Okay. But also it is possible to to to make the the prop prediction the prediction using the the deep learning or it's only machine learning. >> Yeah deep learning is also poss possible. No problem. So I also try to

share also deep learning model some deep learning model. >> Okay. No problem. Okay. >> Okay. >> Okay. Basically this is the total 10 10 days program. No problem. I hope it also cover all of those properly. No problem. >> Oh okay. Okay. >> And if possible try to make the payment for this week. Okay. Then it will more better. >> Yes. This this week I'll finish that. Okay. I think we will meet on on Monday. >> Okay. Monday. Monday I will I will knock you. No problem.

>> Okay. Okay. Thank you. >> Okay. Thank you. Have a good night. Bye. >> Thanks.

Class 6

And then we try to identify for a predict yield. So this is the predic morning. Okay. So in this time we find out that this type of place okay indicating about the high crop yield this type of red color. Okay. Suppose uh 8 ton okay and this type of place is the low this type of place is the low you find out that okay two ton or less than two ton this type of color okay and gradually it increasing so we find out that this type of red color is the high yield prediction you find out from our analysis so now how I can create this

type of prop yield map so now prop yield it's different on the different factor okay so if you add the more factor it will be more better if you want to add the different types of factor suppose uh land surface temperature then precipitation you can also add the different types of indices NDVI EVI or savvi we can add different types of indexes or LSD temperature or bioclimatic variable so different types of thing we try to add in here so in this case I simply add some indexes okay so I just create a function so in this

function basically I just take a element and just I do all of those using this element suppose first of all I just simply remove the cloud and h from my satellite imagery. Then I make the band of NDVI. I make the band of EVI. I also make the band of green chlorophyll vegetation index CCVI. Okay. And finally I simply add all of those together. Okay. So, so I create this function. So I create this function. This is my function variable name. In this function I add the cloud max. I add the NDVI. I add the EVI. I

also add the ZCVI. all of band together. So just I simply copy the function variable and connect with my image collection. So this is my image collection. So this is my image collection. I simply connect. After that I compute the NDVI min average value, NDVI maximum value, EVI average value and GCVI mean value. I simply compute this type of value mean max mean I calculated and then I also take the LST. Okay. Okay. So I also take the LST average data from the modis. You can also use the landset imagery to make the

LST to get the more better result for a small study area and uh filter bounds with my study area. Then filter that. Okay. I use the fun number reproed the scale value and subtract this value to convert the unit degrees CC. Simply convert the unit into degrees. We simply convert. After that we simply predictors. So in this time I simply use this type of predictors. So this is my predictors NDVI min, N L N L N L N L N L N L N L N L N L N L N DVI max then also EVI min also apply the ZCI GCVI mean or LST mean this is my

predictor. So this type of predictor I simply click with my field study area. Okay and I what does sir what does that function of cut mean? >> Okay, this cut function basically combine all of bands together. Okay, suppose this is my NDVI min, NDVI max, EVI min. So all of those I simply combine using the e.cat function and then simply clip with my study area and I just simply rename suppose I put this rename and I also rename. So I just simply remain all of band I simply rename I put this type of name. Okay

just I put this type of name. Okay. So I create the predictors. So after creating the predictors I just display the one map NDVI mean I display it's optional. I just try to show you that. And then uh we simply okay so it's very important about that we need to suppose if you have the ground truth data okay suppose if you check the ground truth data for the crop yield we can also upload it in our uh asset tab as a CSV file suppose for this coordinate how much uh prop yield yield information

suppose Just wait just a minute. I'll try to show my another code. I think it was just save in here. Hello sir. >> Yeah please. >> You normally add is a CSV file in Google. You convert the CSV to file. Yeah. This CSV file you convert the point point file geometry. Okay. Suppose in this case this is the C. Just let me run the code and show you the result. So this is the one kind of prop plant. and this is the crop tracking growth chart. Okay. And we try to identify suppose in this

case you can see I just take the signal two and then we try camped the NDVI. Okay. and this NDVI okay and we just make the chart okay so now in this time if you check we have some ground data suppose this is my ground data yield 1.2 2 okay then suppose NDV 0.5 this is the based on the NDVI and also uh e data suppose I have the NDVI data and e data for a specific coordinate so now based on the NDVI we identify for yield using the regression if you check it showing me this type of regression chart

and also show you a one formula y equal to mx plus c okay you can see yield data equal 2.7 multiply with NDVI plus 0.14. So it's called the linear regression method to identify crop field based on the NDVI. Okay. Suppose for the NDVI or anything it's called the linear regression. We can also apply for the multiple linear regression also. Multiple linear regression it added the more item not only for the NDVI we can also including suppose NDVI NWI or SV or anything we can easily add in here. But in this case

I just apply the NDVI and based on the NDVI I just make the linear regression. We find out you can see Y= MX + C. Okay y= mx + c we find out this type of formula if you check. So this is my formula. This is my formula and for this formula we find out you can see this 2.7 multiply NDPI plus 0.14 here 2.7 it's basically your swap value 0.14 it's the intercept value so we can simply apply this equation and we make this type of crop field prediction okay we can easily identify so here is the high cropil

where is the low cropil okay so we can easily identify this type of result using the linear regression of linear regression of uh NDVI. Okay. Based on the NDVI. Yeah. Yes, please. >> That means that you must go to the Fed to get the ground data that in this area. >> Yes. >> When the NDVI is 0.4 >> normally the Y for this normally is maybe 1.2. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So if you don't have this data it is difficult to predict. >> So now just so this thing we simply

apply for linear regression and make the equation equation. So you can say I just create this type of equation and for the region suppose I just have only for this type of plus data but I want to make the result for the whole land area. So for that we can simply apply this formula y= mx + c because I have the ndvi value for all of region all of propane I have the ndvi value so then I simply apply uh 2.7 and multiply with ndvn plus 0.4 for because NDVI data is available I can easily get the result for uh satellite

imagery for NDVI so then you can see predict so it's one kind of way for uh NDVI based on the NDVI we just make the crop prediction okay I will show you another way just a Let me check it. Okay. So in this code we try to apply you can see the sentinel 2 NDVI lens set 8 NDVI also modis NDVI then also apply the precipitation. Okay. Then also apply the ERA 5 temperature data. Okay. And we also apply suppose soil moisture data. In this time we just use at the sentinel 2 and VB just use as a soil mer share

pixel value just use the vertical polarization. Okay. But in this time there is no uh data ground truth data of soil mer share. So that's why I just use the VV. So it it is a proxy of soil mersh data we also use and simply use this function. And then we just simply combine all of result. Okay. And then we take the ground point. So you can see this type of ground point. So I just randomly I put in here this type of ground point with their yield information. So these things we can also use the CSV file also same process in

the CSV file simply storeed latitude and longitude value and also another column yield another column for yield. So simply add the yield value. Okay. So I for this coordinate I find out the four then 6 7. So this is my ground root data and now I simply make the use the combined. Okay. I just take all the combine and call the training point. So this is my training points. Okay, I just use it for the training points of the yield and then we simply apply the machine learning model. It's called the

random forest and then train data. Okay, and also combine all of data and finally simply apply the classifier and find out this type of machine apply the machine learning and create this type of things. So this is the process to apply the machine learning method to identify for the crop yield prediction use of ground truth data crop yield data. Okay. And in this case we also use this type of factor. Suppose you can see NDVI factor then also use that different types of NDVI NDVI sentinel to NDVI landset NDVI

mode is precipitation then temperature then soil moisture. So this type of factor is influence on our crop. So that's you can also add the more also and other types of things there is no problem but same process we simply add the different types of factor and then we can easily get this type of data. So now if you check for this you can check the legend. So this is the legend. So if you check suppose just click on here and click suppose just take click. So now for this coordinate we find out that

weight prediction result how much four ton we find out class one result in here. Okay. So this is the machine learning and this is the regression. Okay. These two method we can apply to identify for prop yield prediction machine learning or regression. Regression can be you can use the not only for the NDVI you can use the different types of factor. It can be LST it can be NDVI or anything. Okay. Then we can easily apply the regression and predict the u prediction we can also do and also apply the machine learning. So this is the

process for the machine learning and we can also apply for the propel prediction. These two process we can do but for that we need the ground propel data. Okay. So you can also get the idea about the propel prediction how we can apply. Mhm. Okay. So now we talk about that I think this one okay this is very important so okay so it's called that so now this is another suppose irrigation uh priority okay so where you need the irrigation okay so paste like stress where where you need then NDVI is

simply make the and then harvest redness Yes, we just try to identify these type of things.

Class 7

So where I need to make the water suppose this is my field. This is my field. So this field I want to identify where I need to more water stress. This type of things I want to identify. Okay. So for that in this time we just use the NDWI basically normalized difference water index. Then we also use the LST LST land surface temperature. We also use the soil moisture. Okay S map. And finally we try to apply the water stress. Okay, we just make the water stress. So then we can easily find out. So this type of red color in this map we

find out it's a very high stress of water in the field. So you can see this type of field this type of red color it's identify about the high stress of water. Okay. This type of place this type of place but this type of green color it not a stress of water. So for this land I don't need to provide the irrigation. But for this type of place, this type of land, this type of red color, it show about the more stress of water. Okay. And if you check suppose stress class, we also try to make the

stress class. So this is the water stress index. So after creating the index, we also make the stress class. So we find out this type of stress class. So this type of red color indicating about the high stress of water. This type of red color. So this type of plant or this type of crop plant we need the water. Okay. So it's a very high stress. Then suppose it's low and it's very low. This type of green color it's not need the water. But this type of uh this type of red color you must need the water

because it's a very high stress water stress we find out. So now how I can monitor this type of thing? I'll try to explain in here all of data set. So first of all we simply define our study area this field and then we simply take this type of season suppose uh January February March March to May. Okay we just take the May. So this is the peak growing window. We just simply put in here and then same process just apply. We simply make the cloud marks function to remove the cloud from our satellite imagery. Then I take the

central to harmonized imagery. Okay, in this case I same process just apply and make the NDWI because now now we have to make the NDWI and if you check I just add the NDI map. This is the NDWI map. If you want you can also just show the result just stressing that it will look more better for mapping. NWI basically is normalized water index. So we can easily identify for the water where is the high where is the low we can get this type of idea from the NDWI. So in this time we are just identify water stress based on NDWI

then land surface temperature and also soil moisture. So using these three factor we identify where we need the more stress of water where is the less stress of water. So this type of things I try to monitor using in here. So if you check this is the NWI so we can easily identify so this type of place okay so you can see basically 0 minus 0.8 8 and then minus0.1. Okay, so it's not the water but NWI is very high for this type of place. Okay, this type of color indicating high it's not the water but we find out that very

high NWI for this type of place it's also negative because it's a it's a it's a vegetation. Okay, it's a vegetation. But if you compare this value then we find out this type of place is also have more water than this type of others this type of color others. Okay. So this is the NWI we simply may calculate the NWI and also take the NWI and then we take the LST. So in this time for the LST you can use at the modis there is no problem you can use at the modis if you want you can also use at the landset imagery

landset if you want uh you can also use here um which one suppose sentinel sentinel 3 we can also use for monitoring the LST. So this type of mod is landset you can also apply there is no problem but in this case I just take the modis but when you apply for the small study area then try to apply the landset so it provide the more better result when you apply the landset satellite imagery because it's 30 m okay so in this case I just apply the modis so this is the modis satellite data and this mod satellite

data if you check uh from here just check the data so this is the land surface temperature data from this data we can get this type of result LSD 1 kilometer unit is the Kelvin and this is the scale we need to use for repro the scale value so now I simply apply then also filter bounds with my stud area then filter date I put the start date and end date I select my specific band and further I simply multiply 0.02 02 to make the reproed the scale value and subtract this value to get the resent degrees CC. Okay. And

rename it as LST. So now we simply return the LST as a brand in here. I can put the LST average LST for my field. If you want you can also display I just display the average LST of my map. So we can find out this type of resolution can check because this resolution is the 1,000 m. Okay. That's why you find out this type of grid or cell. Okay. this type of GL find out because it's the 1,000 m pixel size. Okay, we can find out this type of things. But when you work with the real project suppose for

your real study area then try to apply for landset because landset is 30 m. Then we find out the more better map. So now it show you this type of grid or cell because it's the modis modice is the 1,000 m for pixel size. So now I just simply use this for the LST and finally alo use at the this data. It's called the soil moisture data. Okay. From the NASA S map, we take the data. But this data set is is also not better for using for the small study area. You can check this resolution is I

think 1,000 m. You can see 9,000 m. Okay, this is not much good. So that's why uh further class I discuss about that how we can easily use the landset imagery and make the soil moisture map. Okay, this thing is very important for the small study area. when you suppose for the small crop area you want to monitor then try to use the landset imagery because landset is 30 m but now in this case I just use it because it's ready made you find out in here soil moisture we find out in here and 9

kilometer grid or cell for the soil moisture so this data I simply use in here but uh when you work with a small study area then try to apply for land sediment means land to remove the soil moisture. >> Is it possible to derive soil moisture from the land? >> Yes, it also possible but further we need to apply another algorithm. So in I will show you that how we can easily use it and identify for the soil moisture as well as uh you can also apply the sentinel one also. Sentinel Sentinel one also but for that we need

the ground root data of uh soil moisture. Okay one data for net ground ground data okay of soil moisture. Okay, then we try to use the soil moisture using the cellular one data. But for the landset, we can easily apply algorithm and detect the soil moisture also. But this is the ready data globally we find out. But this resolution is not much good. So now we simply use it and compute the mean soil moisture. If you just check the map. So this is the map about the soil. No s just I try to show you that

result. Just apply. So you can see it show this type of cell or grid. Okay. Only for three cell is fully fill up my study area because this is the 9,000 m pixel or grid cell. Okay. But when you work with the real project then you try to apply for landset or sentinel then you can find out the more better result. Okay. You can see just it show you only for the three cell. Okay. So now we find out this type of cell it's indicating about the very high stress of water. Okay. And then it's very low soil mer soil mer low and it's

very high. Okay. And it show this type of result because it's the 9,000 m 9,000 m pixel size or grid size. Okay. So I take it this type of data from here. And finally we just make the water stress. Okay. So for the water stress we just create the normalization. Okay. Normalization basically we need to reduce. Okay. We need to reduce all of those normalization and I just for that all of all of data set just keep the same scale when I compute the value using the normalization. See in this time I just take the 250 m all of data.

Suppose it it including all of data. Okay. It can be so merch or also for your uh NDWI or LSD. So I take the all of those and then I simply start the percentile okay 95% there to compute and then just simply apply connect the band all of band together okay and then okay it's not need so now we calculate the 95% percentile and we just simply return the can divided with this value subtract with this value and then maximum with this and we compute you can see okay so in this time you can see I NDWI

equal to low stress. Okay. Suppose if the ND NWI value is high. So it means that low low stress of water. Okay. Then high LST value. Suppose I find out the high LST value for any study area. So it means that high stress of water. Okay. And I find out suppose high soil moisture value. So high soil moisture value it's indicating about the how it's indicating about that low stress of water when I find out the high soil moisture value so just we simply apply this type of things just normalize I

just normalized and call this NWI then LST and soil merure and connected with my study area so this is my field this is my field it started my shape file this boundary so then we simply compute you can see just apply the formula So just I call the LST basically LST add and then subtract with NWI then add with soil moisture. Okay. Basically we simply add uh you can see just I add the LST LST and also add the your uh you can see add the soil moisture simply subtract these two things simply subtract in here

because it's the low impact of that your soil water stress water stress so for that LST then add subtract LST subtract with NWI then add with and subtract with soil moisture and divided by three and this thing we simply apply the rename as the water stress. So now we find out this type of water stress map. If you check we find out this type of water stress map. Okay. So now for this type of place we find out suppose NWI is very high okay high NWI value and LST is low okay and soil moisture is also high for

this type of green color. So that's why we find out that it's a it's it's very low stress low stress of water. And finally we simply make the class. Okay we just simply make the severity class. Suppose uh we just simply low, moderate, high and sever. So for that we simply just you can see I take the stress I just call this variable stress and make the class. >> Yes please please >> I have not I have not understood the code above there. >> Okay just I try to explain again. So in

this case we try to identify a stress using the three factor. First factor is N DWI. Second factor is the LST and third factor is the soil moisture. Okay. Suppose for a study area for a study area suppose this study area NWI value is very high. If the high NI value it's indicating about the low stress okay and low NDWI value it is indicating about the high stress. Okay. invert suppose this type of place I find out that high NDWI value so this high NWI value indicating about the low stress but this

type of place I find out the low NDWI value so it's indicating about that high stress okay or vice versa then high LST so high LST uh suppose this type of place we find out that low LST lowst basically eating about the low stress. Okay. But high LST indicating about the high stress this type of place we find out the highest stress and finally soil moisture. Soil moisture if the soil moisture value is the high it means that low stress. Okay. And if the soil moisture value is the low it means that

high stress. Okay. Suppose for this type of place soil moisture is very low. Okay. This type of region red color soil moisture is very low. So that's the reason you find out that high stress and this type of place soil moisture is very high. So that's how you find out that low stress. Okay. And finally when you compute the stress in this time we simply call the LST okay LST. So this is the LST. This LST we simply subtract with N DWI. Okay. Then subtract with >> nom. Yeah. >> Nom01. What is nom1?

>> Which one? >> Nom 01. You see nom. >> Oh, normalize. Normalize. It's called the normalized. So you can see. Yeah. Yeah. So for that we create a function. You can check. So in this case we create a function normalized and we define the image and region. So all of data. So in this time we have total three data N LST and so M share map. So all of data we simply normalize 0 to one 0 to one value. Okay. All of data we just simply normalized. >> Yeah. >> 0 to one and also keep the same scale

when you compute the normalized. So this is my function normalize. So I simply call the normalized function variable name in here and define the NDWI. I already make the NWI if you check. So just I simply call it. Okay. Just I simply call it NI. This thing I simply call and paste here. Basically I simply use the this is my function. I simply call it and this is my study area. So this is my function. I simply call the LST. I already make the LST LST average. You can see I already make the LST average.

So this thing I simply compute and then connect with my function. Okay. This norm norm this this variable basically store the function. This function I included the normalize all of data and compute the normalize 0 to 1 and then we simply connecting with our value. So this is the value for NWI and this is my uh study area. This is the value of LST and this is my study area. This is the value of soil mer and this is my study area. So now I simply use all of those and it is stored in this variable. In this variable in this

variable I store it normalized value. Okay, this variable is straight the normalized value. So this is my function. So I create a function and this function I simply use different different factor. Okay, so now for simply apply this formula. Okay, this formula basically LST subtract with NWI and subtract with soil moisture and divide it with three because we have three factors and then we simply name is the water uh stress index and then we just simply uh get this type of water index map. So this is

my water index water stress index map. So from this index now we can easily get where is the high stress of water this type of place this type of red color and this type of place is the low stress and further we also make the class. Suppose I just make the three class uh low moderate and sever. So how I can make the three class? So for the three class we simply call the stress. I put the less than if the stress value less than 0.33 then we make the low okay and then add the stress greater than equal 0.33 and

stress less than 0.66 okay between this range we find out that two two basically moderate this is my another class and finally stress if the greater than equal 0.66 six six we make the another class three three is the s now we finally finally finally we simply add this map if you check we find out the stress class so we find out this type of is it's a very high stress okay this type of uh stress less than 0.33 okay very high stress this type of red color sorry this type of three color this type of

red color okay it the class three it's the class three this type of place the class three Because this type of place stress value is the 0.6 uh 0.66 g than if you check the value suppose just I show you the stress value just click on the red color. So this value will be greater than equal 0.66 if you check this is water stress value will be greater than equal 0.66 we find out the 0.7 okay 0.7 which is the greater than equal 0.66. So this type of place we find out the highest stress of water. Okay. Then uh this type

of yellow color it's indicating about that this range 0.33 to 0.66. This range it's a moderate. So if you check it just click on here. So now you find out the value between this range 0.33 to 0.66. Between this we find out the yellow color and it's indicating about the moderate stress of water. Okay, we found the 0.5. Okay, 0.5. So this value belongs with 0.33 to 0.66. So it's a moderate class. But if you check this type of green color, it's indicating about the low stress. Okay,

lowest less than 0.33. So you find out the less than 0.33 for this type of green color and it's indicating about the low stress of water. we find the 0.1. Okay. So that's why we find out this type of map for the water stress map for our study area. So it's low. This type of green color is the lowest stress. The yellow is the moderate and red is the very high stress of water. Okay. Did you get the idea about that? >> Yes. Yes. >> Okay. Yes. >> So first we try to check the area.

Suppose how much area is available for that water high stress low stress and also moderate stress. So this is the layer we simply add all of classes and also add the legend. Okay. This type of legend. So it's not mandatory. Okay. So we try to create the calculate the area. So it's very easy we already about that how we can make the area. Okay. Suppose for that uh it okay. So this is the leen code. So now it will be start from here. So we simply calculate the area. Suppose low stress how much

area moderate how much area and sever how much area or extreme how much area we try to identify. So for that here I already calculate the area. If you check we find out that area total four class three class. So this is the low we find out that area is a 24 square kilometer area. Then we find out that moderate this moderate is for 151 and find out what that how much area for saver or extreme we find out the 21 spectrometer area red color this thing we can also define using the chart okay just make a chart and define the area

also okay just click on here then you can get this type of chart water class so you can see low lowest stress 24 square km area then moderate is the 151 and saver we find out the 21 square km area for our study area. We find out this type of water stress class. Okay. So this is the calculation part. I you could also try to use the same code to for the calculating the area. But this is the main um step to identify for water stress. And in this case uh I just take the big study area. But when you

work with the small study area then you need to change some data. So we need to apply for the land set because this soil mer data is not good. So this soil mer data is the 9,000 m. Okay. So that's why it not show you the more better result for the small crop area.

Class 8

for growth monitoring. Yeah. Using remote sensing and I hope you also get the previous video class. You can also get Yeah. >> Okay. So, let's go start. So, let me share my screen. Okay. Can you see my screen? Is it visible? Yes, it's coming. Okay, thank you. So let's so basically today's topic I discuss about that uh I already make some practical code for our crop uh analysis using remote sensing. So how we can easily monitor the crop okay using the different way in remote sensing also

discuss about that such as how we can easily okay let me open my slide as well as we also discuss about that uh crop uh phenology okay how we can track the growth of crop then detect the stress then predict yield and also support from management using remote sensing so I will try to explain all of those from beginners to advanc level then I hope you can easily the idea and further you going to say apply this type of things for your uh study area. Okay. So let me open my slide just a minute. Okay.

So today should I discuss about that how we can use crop monitoring with remote sensing and help of GIS mainly how we can easily track the growth then detect the stress of crop then also predict the yield and also support farm management using GIS and remote sensing. So first of all crop phenological model. So this model is very helpful to identify different steps of crops. So we can easily get the idea. So today's discuss about that crop phenological model and how we can easily use this crop

phenological model. We also discuss as well as how we can easily um apply the crop phenological model for different crop types analysis or crop growth or crop production yield prediction. So these type of things how we can really apply this prop phenological model we also discuss about that. So first of all uh pro phological model is the study of the periodic plant life cycle event suppose it mainly study about that periodic plant life suppose for the um season of growth then peak of the growth

then harvesting so it's phenology phenology means that study of the periodic plant life cycle event showing to following to harvesting okay uh so this is the phology it may study about the periodic plant life cycle event. A phenological model predict when this stress uh occurs based on the climate, soil management and crop specific traits. So basically in this time we can easily find out that different phase of plant life suppose sewing then flooring then harvesting. So different types of phase we can easily identify using the

phenology model and this model predict when this stress occur based on the climate soil management and crop specific traits we can also use and it help the farmers and researcher suppose when will uh with follower under the current temperature trend suppose I have a field of uh wheat okay so this follower under the current temperature trend when uh we follower under the current temperature trend. We can easily get this idea from the phological model and how much will mice growing est shift under the climate change. Okay, so this

type of things we can easily detect using the phological model and what's the optimal swing debt to maximize the yield. Okay, so this type of things we can easily find out using the crop phenological model. So any farmer any researcher they can easily get this type of answer. Suppose when will we with follower under the current temperature trend suppose for the temperature how we can easily when we find out that this type of things and how much uh will mice grow stress shift under the climate

change and what's the optimal swing to maximize yield. So this type of things we can easily get using the crop phenological model as well as uh this is the component about that crop phenological model suppose thermal time thermal time basically growing degrees day or GDD it's a short form this is a thermal time thermal time basically is the growing degrees day then photoriot sensitivity then baralization mainly cold requirement and stress factor so this four is mainly for your trope phenological model, the thermal time,

then photo periodic sensitivity, then veralization and also stress factor and then types of phological model. So different types of phenological model is available such as empirical model or statistical model. Okay, empirical model and statistical model. Suppose this model based on the regression between the climate variable such as temperature then rainfall then day length then observe phenology and also simpler but less fixible under the changing condition. So it's called the empirical or statistical model. So this

statistical model based on the regression. Okay. So we can easily make the regression. Suppose climatic variable different types of climatic variable it can be temperature it can be rainfall it can be day length and object phology simpler but less flexible under the changing condition and also uh this another types it's called the process based model or dynamic model it's called the process based model. So this model basically simulate the physical process such as photosynthetis then respiration

then carbon allocation. So we are used different types of process based model such as D des D set then episam then obsoort. So aqua crop. So this type of model we can easily use to identify for photosynthesis then respiration then carbon allocation and simulate the physical process. Okay. Can irrigate soil then water management practice. So these type of things we can easily get using this process based model and also finally remote sensing driven models. Suppose in remote sensing we can easily

use different types of satellite vegetation indexes such as NDVI, EVI or LII to detect the greening and peak growth and sensily get and combine with climatic data to calibrate or validate the process model. So basically these three types of model we can use in the prophenological such as empirical then process based and also remote sensing driven model. So these three model we are use in the ph crop phenological and then application. So for the the basically using the crop phenological model we can easily identify crop

calendar design we can easily identify and determine the best harvest time. Okay, best swing or best harvest time we can easily identify using the crop phenological model and also climate change impact simulated how warming shift phenology suppose uh for the temperature trend what's the impact on my crop we can easily get using this model or precision agriculture optimize irrigation then pesticides and fertilizer schedule we can also get using the crop phenological model and also yield forecasting so I depends on

the strongly on the flooring and the grain the filling periods and remote sensing validation basically compare the satellite drive growth states with the simulated states. So this type of application we can easily do using the prop phenological model. And now suppose in this time I talk about the tracking crop growth. So how I can easily track the crop growth monitor the crop estess with different types of indexes suppose NDVI, EVI or ZCVI. So this type of indices were used to monitor the crop stress. So different

types of est we can find out and time series analysis to detect the anomalies and identify a special variability across the field. Suppose for that uh tracking of the growth we can easily identify different types of indices suppose NDVI, EVI and ZCVI we can easily get identified for the crop growth as well as if you check suppose detecting stress. Okay. Detecting stress. This stress can be water paste or diseases. So water stress we can easily get from NDWI or LST land surface temperature and soil merure. So this type of data we can

easily find out from the water stress. So for the water stress we can measurement using this type of factor NWI, LSP, soil merure or paste or disase stress we can get the canopy reflectance anomalies. Okay. paste or disease stress. These things we can find out using the canopy reflectance anomalies or use the composite to reduce the cloud or weather effect. So this is the detecting stress basically water stress pest or diseases we can get and estimating the plant vio and yield. So bolution indexes for bioar or biomass or

chlorop field. We can also apply the regression model for yield prediction or seasonal forecasting with the multi-ensor data these things and supporting farm management decision. Suppose irrigation optimize water schedule we can easily identify optimize water schedule or pesticides apply only v stress detected. Okay suppose I find out this is the stress jone. So I can simply apply the pesticide or harvesting predict the optimal harvesting timing. So and also we can use this type of tool. Okay. So let's go try to uh show

the practical example. So first of all I discuss about the tracking the growth uh crop growth how we can easily identify. So we can use the different types of indexes. So let me show you the practical example. Suppose if you check here I already make this type of code. So this is my crop field. So this for this crop field I just simply take the crop field. So in this crop field I want to identify for the crop growth. Okay. I want to identify for the crop growth using >> Yeah. >> sir please.

>> Yeah please. >> Can you increase the phone size? >> Okay. Just Okay. Done. So just simply expand. >> Yeah. Please. >> Yes. When you control and plus control plus. Okay. >> Yes. So now if you check suppose I take the field suppose this is my field. This is my crop field. So for this crop field I want to identify for the crop growth. Okay. So then if you check that this is another example. So this example we try to identify for the water stress suppose where I need to uh irrigation. So I find

out this type of place I I need to irrigation this type of land or this type of field I need to pay the irrigation. So it's called the water stress. Okay. Then suppose we try to identify for crop yield prediction. Suppose we find out the maximum yield. So how we can easily create this type of maximum yield prediction depend on the different types of factor we also discuss one by one. And this is the another one. So this is the it's very interesting. So in this time it show about that your irrigation priority.

Okay. First of all irrigation priority. Then we also identify for the past like stress and NDVI or harvest readiness. Okay. So we can easily get this type of things. So I will try to explain and further we also discuss about that your uh SOS. SOS basically how we can easily identify for as you can see SOS date then EOS date. Okay. And also finally another one is called um POSOS date. Okay. So we can easily identify for POS and SOS. So this type of things basically season of int. Okay. So this type of date we can also

identify for the uh using the crop phenological model basically peak of season. Okay. POS basically pickup season. Then further also you can see the another one SOS. Okay. Or AOS we can also identify. So SOS, POS and US. So these type of things we can also try to identify for the different date. So let's go try to explain all of those step by step then you can easily get the idea how we can easily apply the water stress or identify for the different types of haret uh harvest uh readiness then also har okay paste like stress. So

this type of things we try to identify step by step. So first of all uh we discuss about that uh your this things. So this thing is basically yeah. So first of all I simply draw a study area. Suppose I just take the field. Suppose this is my study area. So for this field I want to identify for the uh crop growth. I want to monitor the crop growth. So for that first of all you simply apply the time period. Suppose I simply take a variable start date and end date and I put the time. Suppose this is my time period. I take the one

year. So you can also put the specific season also. Suppose some season basically cultivate the different types of individual crops. So I also try to put this type of props in here. So I simply take the one year. So for the one year I just simply try to check the crop growth using my time series chart. So when it will be high, when it will be low, we can easily get the idea. So sewing st then suppose pickup st then you find out the harvesting st. Okay. Basically we find out the three states in the chart and

finally I simply use here the sentininal two satellite imagery. For the sentinal two satellite imagery we are just use a function. So basically this function help you to remove the cloud and h from your satellite imagery. So basically I just take this function and this is my function band name. Okay. So this is a cloud mark band. So this cloud marks band I simply use and you use the bit 10 and bit 11. So basically bit 10 and bit 11 is the cloud and also sas cloud. So this type of things I simply use. So

this function basically I use for removing the cloud. So just I simply write the comment. So this function it's a remove remove the cloud and h from your satellite imagery. Okay. So this is my function I just create it's help me to remove the cloud and h further I simply call my collection. So I simply call the sentinel to surface harmonized imagery. Then filter bounds with my study area. Then filter date with my time period. I already define the start date and end date. Then also I take suppose less than

60% cloud. Okay, I take and then just simply apply the map. So this is my map function and this is my function variable name for removing the cloud. You can say this is my function variable name. So this function I simply replace in here using the map function. So now it connect with my uh image collection and remove all of cloud. It's easily remove all of cloud and further we are just creating a function. You can see I create another function. So this function basically compute the normalized difference. Normalized

difference between near infrared band and red band. Okay. I rename it as NDVI. And further I simply return this band as a image. Okay. Return this band. I simply as a band and further I simply display the map. So you can check just I simply uh display this map map. And also okay add this. So now if I just run the code so then we can easily get the result. So this is our map we generate for NDVI okay for the one year. So if you want you can also take the crop field and also put the specific time

period for a specific crop when you identify suppose only for the rice only for the Jude only for the sugar can. So you need to identify when this type of crop is cultivated. Okay. When the sewing, when the harvesting, so and when the pick of the growth. So this type of idea. So you can simply put your season. Okay. So in this time I take the whole year. Okay. And then I simply identify for the crop sewing and also crop pickup stress and finally for the harvesting. So we can get this type of chart. So

from this chart we can easily get the idea uh when the sewing date that when the harvesting when the your pick up the stress that okay we can easily get the identify the crop growth. So now I just use the NDVI so just I create this type of normal difference and I put this type of result if you check so we find out this type of result. If you want you can also change the color. So I put this type of color. Suppose I want to change the color combination. So for that you can put any color combination.

Suppose then I put here um this type of color or put here suppose this type of color I put suppose this type of drug color for the good or vegetation or crop just apply so now you find out this type of color so this type of green color it's indicating about the very high growth of crop we find out Okay. And this type of place you can see it not mass. So I think for this time or for this season it not be cultivated or this prop is stressing but in this field if you check so we find out this type of place we

find out the very high density or high value of NDVI. So it means that for this type of probe we find out the very good result or good production or we find out the good prof we find out. So now if you check I want to identify uh the phenological model. So I want to identify phenological model. So suppose sewing date then pick up stress and also harvesting date. So for that we need to create the time series chart. Okay. So how I can make the time series chart? Very easy. We already discussed about

that. So for that I simply take the NDVI chart take a variable and then UI chart image series. Then I simply call my image collection. So I already s2 it started my image collection you can check. So this is variable the image collection. So from this image collection I simply select the NDVI. So this is my band. I already created the band and I simply region it's my field and then I just take the reducer reducer. I can calculate the about the mean and then scale is the 10 m for resolution. I add

the title as well also X level title Y level title. I simply add just I simply add all of uncheck and make the line with a print chart. So finally we just print the chart. So now run the code. So now it show you a chart and from this chart we can easily get the idea about our uh prop showing that also prop pickup stage and also identify about that your harvesting. Okay. So if you check Okay. So we find out this type of chart if you check this chart. So in this chart if you check we find out the first

time it show the low NDVI you can see it start the low after that you can see it it increasing increasing increasing. So it's the growing stress. So this is the growing stress after that you can see NDA is also less also also less sequentially also less less we find out the less. So this is the list for the harvesting time we find out. Okay, first time we are simply sewing our seed on the field. So then the so this type of seeds are growing step by step you can see. So that's why you also find out

that NDV is also increasing increasing increasing and we find out that very good NDVI on this time. So June 8th so this is the peak growth stage. This is the peak growth stage of your crop. Okay, this is the peak growth stage of the crop. After that it simply you can see decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease and then we find out this is the low. Okay. So it means that we find out that this is the time for harvesting time. So NDI value is also low for the harvesting time for the region of

harvesting. So now this is the chart for the whole whole study area. So this is our whole study area we find out this type of chart. But I want to check only for this field. I want to check suppose only for this field. So for that if you want you can simply take a marker suppose I just take a marker and I take the new layer okay and I just take suppose this is my suppose this is my field okay just I click on here so it's a uh now we can simply check for this field what the scenario of that so

simply change the study area suppose I simply put here the geometry I simply change the region of interest geometry so now I find out the prop phenological growth tracking only for this field only for this field I find out. So I find out this type of things you can check it show this type of chart and we find out the line breaking chart. Okay. So this line breaking chart we can also create the continuous chart just we need to open a another argument. So it's called that your this argument name is we need

to apply here interpolate null. So just I apply it suppose interpolate null. So when you apply the interpolate class then we find out that uh continuous chart without line breaking. So now run that again and now if you check we find out for this type of result. So you find out this type of things you can check. So in this time if you check this is the another graph. So in this graph what what I can see you can see. So first time I simply swing okay sewing my seed then it's simply increasing in

the pickup stage or growing we find out and you can see it totally decrease you find out the 0.3 so in this time if you check and then finally you can see it also increasing increasing the NDVI value increasing the NDVI value increasing the and finally decreasing so from this field we find out that two season of crop okay suppose this land or this area we find out that two times suppose first in in a year in a year they cultivated the crop two times. So first time we find out from here. So this is the first time. So this is the

uh this is the growing season. This is the growing time and this is the harvesting time. Again they are also cultivated again the growing season. This is the this is the this is the sewing season and this is the harvesting season. So now we find out for this crop they cultivate the crops in the two time in a year. Okay. So then so that's the reason we find out this type of chart. Okay. You can see we find out that so it will be just showing season and it can see pickup stance and then also down the

NDVI value. So this is the harvesting. So after that they are also growing also showing the seed and you can see pick up season and then we find out this type of things. So this is from this chart we can also get this type of idea. Some field we find out the two crops in a one year. Some field three crops in a one year. So we also find out this type of things from here. We can get the idea from the from this type of uh growth tracking chart. It's called the uh crop growth tracking chart. So now if you want

suppose I just get the result only for this point only for this point but I need the result for this for this whole land suppose whole circle so for that you can simply use a buffer suppose how I can make the buffer so it's very easy just you simply use here the geometry dot buffer and define your buffer stud area suppose I put the buffer is that uh suppose uh 100 m so now let's And if you want suppose I just show the buffer area also then it will be look more better then you can check it it

will be cover or not. So for that I just take a variable suppose I put the suppose buffer field buffer field so now in the buffer field I call my geometry and apply the buffer and take the suppose 100 m. So now let's check the buffer study area map add layer and call the buffer field just copy and run the code. So now let's check it also added another layer. So you can see it also create the buffer but not fill up my full land. So I simply increase suppose buffer 1,000 m. So now let's check what happened.

Okay, it's very big you can see. So now I need to reduce the number. So I put here suppose uh 500. Okay, it also cover but I also put here suppose 400 I then I hope it will be properly cover my prop area. Okay. So it's okay. Suppose you can see in this time I just use the field buffer. So I want to just suppose this is my land or prop. So this land I want to check the uh tracking the prop using the NDVI. So for that what can I do? Just I copy the field buffer field and I just use in here. So now run the code.

So now you find out this type of result you can check. Okay. So you can check we find out that sometime this is the NDVI. So we find out this for this land we find out the NDVI result it will be start from here. So it can see we find out the negative NDV is the negative. So negative means that there is no crop. Okay. So it will be water okay without without crop. Suppose this is the land just water not any kinds of crop. You can see we also find out it also increasing okay 0.3 then you can see 0.3

then also decreasing then again increasing we find out increasing or decreasing so you can see we find out this type of uh pickup is this is the growth pickup okay this is the growth pickup stage but in this chart we find out that this is the highest uh growth okay this is the highest growth of uh crops we find out okay this is the growing so now we find out the tracking from here So about this NDVI value 0.7 we find out that in the May 9 and also you can see in the harvesting time you can see we find out that November 10 0.1

and finally you can see it also decreasing okay decreasing 0.3 so in this time suppose in the December 15 there is no crop there is no any kinds of crop on this field because it show the negative value 0.05 05. So this is the way we can just simply you in this case I just apply the NDVI but you can also apply the different types of indices. Suppose if you check this is another so this it's very helpful. So it's called the GCVI okay it's the mapping vegetation health and productivity using the GCVI. GCVI

basically it's another index. So this index basically green chlorophyll visitation index. So it's very much uh work. Okay. So we can easily identify. So NDVI basically it's work for that vegetation okay any kinds of vegetation but when you work with the crop then you try to use for the ZCVI it's called the green chlorophyll vegetation index we can easily use and identify for that uh vegetation health or chlorophyll also productivity we can easily get so this is the we can easily get we can easily

vegetation health or productivity or chlorophyll concentration we can easily get using these things and we can easily identify for the chart and from the chart we Definitely get the idea for the sewing date then pick up then your the growing season what's the value of NDVI for the pickup stage or pickup growth and also harvesting this type of thing we can easily get it from here and this is the formula you can see GCVI so near infrared band minus near divided by green and minus one so now we can easily

get this formula we can easily apply for land set or sentinel sentinel 2 is better so you try to use the sentinel 2 freely but if you have the drone imagery We already about that how we can easily apply the drone imagery. So we also try to use the drone then it will be look more better. So when you apply this type of formula okay so I also send you this type of PDF file also you also try to read then you get the lot of idea about that for the crop growth monitoring and finally you can simply export as a coot file format and

then we can easily show the crop growth where is the high growth where is the low growth we can easily get okay and from the uh imagery you can also use the real time okay suppose any field any field you try to observe. So you try to use if if you check this imagery what is the last time about that. So this is the imagery and we can get the last time of the image is year of 2025 20. Okay. So this is the last time period about that. Okay. August 20 >> today. >> Yeah. Today. Yeah. So we can easily use

the near real time. But uh for that for the present time we find out the lot of cloud. So that's why you also try to apply the cloud max function. Okay. You can see I also add the cloud mark function in here. So this function when you apply and when you take the more cloud pixel 60 this cloud is not affect on your imagery even I put the 100 then this cloud is also not affected in my imagery. We find out the more better quality map when you apply the cloud max function. So it's called the cloud max

function. So this cloud must function you can al always try uh for the near real time when you monitor because in the near real time we find out the lot of cloud in our satellite imag. So that's why you also try do the cloud remover function in the near real time and further you can take the 100% cloud or 60% clouds it's not affecting your satellite imagery then we just make the NDVI we can also apply the GCVI or EVI to monitor the time series and also time series analy to detect the anomalies and

identify special variable across the field we can easily get it for specific things. So now we talk about that detecting the stress okay suppose it can be water stress or paste or diseases stress okay or how we can identify this type of a stress in uh remote sensing. So let's go ahead to show you that this type of things. So this is the result we find out for the crop growth monitoring or track tracking the crop growth for the different season. In this time I just take the one year so that's why it look

like that. But when you just suppose for the rice rice is cultivated for a specific season suppose sewing date and also harvesting date. So you try to apply this type of date in here and we can easily monitor the truck of the broth of the rice or sugar can or any specific um crop. We can easily identify the tracking the crop. Okay. So now we talk about that water stress.

Class 9

Okay. So, welcome. So, basically to discuss about that uh crop yield prediction. Okay. Help of machine learning. How we can easily predict the crop. Okay. Or predict the productivity. Okay. So, today discuss about that how we can easily predict the crop. Okay. So I'll try to explain all of things from beginner salesman level and I hope you can easily get the idea how we can use the machine learning and then how we can easily predict the productivity okay as well as how we can easily make the

productivity map okay so let's I will try to show you that all of those step by step then you can get the idea let me share my Hey, can you see my screen? Okay. So, let's start. So, first of all, you can simply open your terminal. this terminal we need to active need to active our environment. So I already created the environment. So previous class I discuss about that how we can create the environment. So now I need to active this environment. So I simply write here ponda activate and put my environment name. Okay. So my

environment name is that Jio AI. So this is my environment name. I simply active. So you can see it will be activated. So it show the JOI in here. And for simply open our Jupiter lab. So just I simp. So now it will open our Jupyter lab. So where we write our port? Okay. You can see it will be open. So you can see it open this type of uh folder. So basically it's the default folder. So this is the default folder. If you want you can also open. So I already discuss about that. So now I want to work with this folder and I just

work with uh Python 3 this notebook I try to create and for that I want to predict the crop field prediction. So for that I need some data. Basically I need the boundary data boundary of my field as well as I also need the data for ground some ground data. Okay. Suppose soil moisture data or also wind speed data suppose as well as also yield data. Okay. So basically this type of data we are just use in our u machine learning and further we simply predict the productivity. Okay. So let me open my data. So it is just stored in my

download folder. So in my download folder if you check this is the folder profil. So here I find out this type of CSV file. So basically this type of CSV file it store it the data. Okay. So it is stored the moisture data for my field latitude longitude. Okay. For this type of field or also speed data al wind speed or also weight data also e data. Okay. So this type of data I need to work in my model in my machine learning model and further um I just simply predict the productivity. Okay. So for

that first of all we need to um open the Python 3 just I simply open. So just I simply open in this and I put the you can also click on here and put the rename. Suppose I put the rename as I put the name suppose prop productivity productivity. You can put any name. So this is my Python. I just simply create this uh notebook. So now I simply write my code. So first of all we need to import some uh important packages. I need to import. Suppose first package I simply import uh one package it's called

that import geo pandas okay this is my package and I just I rename it as a GPD okay I put this type of name GPD I also import another package which called the numpy okay numpy as np I also import another package matt plot lib dot pi pipot as plt. Okay. And then I simply import uh pandas pandas as pd. I also imported uh the seaborn. You just import corn. This is another python package. Cabborn as SNS. Okay, you can put any name. So I simply imported this type of package and run. Just run. So I can see

it loaded. And this type of package I already imported. Okay, I already imported but it show the one problem. Matt plot lib. So Matt plot lib.py plot no module it show. So map let me check the spelling. Okay. Now let's run the code. So now it's work. There is no problem. So mplot li.py plot. So it's imported. So now this type of CSV file I need to import in my uh code editor. Okay. So for that uh we simply take the variable suppose path one and I want to read. So you can see basically there the total 1 2 3 4 5

or six CSV file is including the different types of information. I think another file it is stored in here. Let me show you that uh another CSV file. So this one field CSV so just simply click on here you can see just copy the path and I just simply write the code I simply store it okay first of all I simply store it this type of data. So this is the for the path one I simply stored the one CSV file. Take the another variable suppose path two. I simply store the another file who is stored uh in this folder

um prof. So just open this folder. Suppose this one just I simply copy copy the path and then paste here. Okay. And then another suppose path three just I open this just copy the path of this file just copy and then paste here. Then path four simply copy this part. Copy this path and paste here. Then path pipe storage this another CSV will be path and paste here. We simply input all of data. Okay. Path six. just copy this path and paste here. So now run the code. Okay. So there is no problem. So

now this type of file I want to read. Okay. So basically when you read the CSV file we need to use a Python library. It's called the pandas. Okay. We need to pandas library. I put the pandas library as a pd. So just take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name df1 and I simply put here call the pd dot read csv. Okay. And then just call the path one like simply copy and paste it. So now this same line we simply run suppose two then three then four then five then six. I simply change the name. Suppose

it's a path df2 and it will be part two. So I simply store it then it's three then four then five and finally it's six. I will change the variable name suppose df three then four five and finally six. So I simply read but we face a problem. this problem it show the result. Okay. PD read CSV it show the problem keywords refine the default rate. Okay. So this is a no SAS file directory from this folder. It show this type of problem. Okay. Let me just a minute. Let me open the terminal again.

Suppose I put the uh panda activate go aai and I open the Jupiter app. Okay. Okay, so now it's open Jupyter Lab. So it get it don't get the P. Okay. So I create this in here this file. I imported all of library again pandas as PD. Import geopandas as GPD. import plot lip py plot as plt then import numpy as np then import corn as sns imported So now I simply create a path one and suppose I just call one CSV. So this CSV I simply copy the path and paste here and run it. So I put the DF1 and I want to read it. So call the PD

and put the read CSV function to put the path. What is the problem? It show the problem. No s file or directory. It cannot access the file. Why? >> Okay. I think some problem for the kernel this folder we face some problem. Yeah. Okay. Let me Okay. Reopen this terminal. [Music] Suppose I activate GO AI. I put the CD or change directory. I simply open go to the download folder downloads in the download folders I simply open the Jupyter notebook suppose Jupiter lab. So now it directly open the download

folder where we find out the directory. Okay download folder. So now we can easily access the download folder. So this this is the download folder. All of those are in here. So I want to create my folder uh Python notebook folder. I simply open in here. Okay. And now let me try suppose import pandas as PD take the new cell suppose part one and copy the path. So I copy the uh data. So this file simply copy and paste it. Okay. And then I want to read it. So DF one call the PD dot read CSV. Okay. And then put here

path one. Yes. So now it's Yeah. So that's what we find out the result. So now the same proc just apply and also imported. Yeah, please. >> What was the problem? >> This problem is that we just use the same directory. Suppose you can check this file uh basically this my data. This data suppose uh this first data first data it store it in my download folder. Okay. in my downloads folder >> as well as you can see >> yes >> this type of file uh suppose this is

another file but this file in my download folder and I when I open the download folder then I also get this type of folder and also get this type of data okay so now let me show you that it will be work or not suppose just I simply call the path Q and call this just simply copy the path and paste here Okay. So now you can see what happened. So this folder, this first folder, this first folder, this is the folder, this folder is stored in my download folder. Okay. This folder is stored in my download folder. And this

uh notebook, this notebook is also stored in my download folder. This notebook also stored in my download folder. So now I hope it will work. So just run the code again. And I take the another suppose pf2 and call the pd dot read csv. So now put the path two and run it. So it work there is no problem you can see. So this is a problem is that first time we create the another folder suppose all of data in my download folder but I just create the notebook in the another folder not download folder so in this

case I just simply create this file in my download folder okay so that's why all of data all of data from the download folder I can easily access so this download folder is the uh mother directory it's a mother directory. Okay, this download folder is the mother directory and in this directory I can create my create my file create my Python notebook. Okay, just rename it. Suppose I put the rename um rename is uh prop productivity mapping. So I put this type of name. So now you can see I have a mother

directory. This my download and this download I simply create my Python notebook. And now all of file I can easily use now in my mother directory I can easily use in my python code editor I can easily use all of file. Okay because my first file is the download folder. So further I simply create this file in the download folder. So now in the download folder all of file I can easily access in my code editor. Suppose I want to access another file um this one. Suppose I create another suppose path

three then suppose path four path five and path six. So I simply put the equal sign and simply just copy the path. Just I copy the path and paste here. So this is the field three. Paste here. This is the field four. Copy the path. This file name is that 9. This put here and put the file name. It's say 11. So now run the code there is no problem. So now I create the just simply read all of file one by one. So df3 then four 5 and six. So I simply put the say 1 2 then 3 4 5 6 and same as 1 2 3

4 5 and six. So now run the code there is no problem. Okay. We simply use the CSV that contain all of sample point all of sample point for microp plant with their different types of ground information. So I want to read one suppose I want to read the DF1 data DF1 data and check the data. So you can find out this type of uh you can say the x and y okay x and y value basically latitude longitude value and also get the moisture value it's a ground then speed value wind speed value then width of the land width and also get the eel

data okay and yield per acre we also compute. So now this is my data. So all of the similar data you can see that DF2. So this is another field data. Okay. This is the DF3. So this is another field data. Okay. Different different data. But I want to compute the uh productivity at the same time all of all of land. Suppose field two it's a one kind of plan. Field three this is another land. Field four is this is another land. So I want to uh compute the productivity mapping using all of uh CSV file at the same time and then try

to show you that how we can work. So now this X and Y you can see we find out the X and Y X and Y. Okay, this X and Y coordinate we need to convert into geo data frame. Okay, so we need to convert the X and Y into geo data frame. go data frame basically when you convert then we can easily plot this type of latitude longitude in our map we can easily plot this type of latitude longitude so for that we simply uh use the go data frame okay from the geopandas we simply call the geo data frame so for that just take a variable

suppose gdf1 and I call the geopandas library gpd so I already defined the geopandas or need to define and the go pendas also. So import go pendas as GPD. I put the name GPD. So just simply I just use the GPD. So from the GPD I just simply call a call a uh function this function called the JO data frame. So put here the Jio then data and frame. Okay. Just this function JO data frame. So I want to create the go data frame for DF1 for this data DF1 basically this X and Y we it convert the geo data frame. So

just I define okay define and we need to define the geometry. Okay we need to define the geometry. So for that another argument is the geometry. Put here the geometry geometry equal. So we call the geopendas library gpd geopendas library and use the function points from x y. So it's one kind of function. So when you work with the latitude longitude or x and y value so need to put the function points from x and y. So now these points it's come from it's come from DF1 first DF1 basically this this data DF1

from the DF1 if you can see the DF1 if you just we find out the X and Y. So DF1 X and Y. So I simply define DF1 and apply the dot X column. Okay. X comma again call the DF it's a hypen so this is the hypen and also put the df one dot y so I define my point or also x uh latitude longitude I simply define okay as well as if you want you can also define the coord uh reference system it's called the crs coordinate reference system. So we just use here at the uh EP HG value. So for this study area EPG

value is that uh 32 618. So this is the constant value for the so you can easily find out for any study area simply search what is the if J value we can easily get it this type of value. So now I simply copy the same line of code and I need to apply for all of others. So suppose ZDF2 I put the DF2 data and also put the DF2 from the X and DF2 from the Y. Okay, same. So then put the another just paste here and I put the GF uh three and put the DF just three. Just simply change the variable name three

three. Okay, other keep the same. Then put the df gdf4 change the variable then call the data set df4 and also change the uh df1 basically it's a df4 and also it's a4 others keep the same Okay. And finally simply put here suppose for the file put the DF five And finally last one we convert the go data frame X and Y. I put the GDF six CS just I keep the same. So run the code. So now it's work. There is no problem. So now take the new cell. So I have to add the plot and display this type of point. Suppose I just simply

call this variable GDF1 and I will display. So just use the plot function plot. So now run the port we create this type of plot. Suppose I check the another tree separate this type of plot. So this type of training sample or training point or point we find out this type of point suppose six. So we find out this type of point. Okay. Suppose this is the fourth. So it easily display this type of points. Okay. Who is indicating different types of information for our propel prediction. So we can easily get

this type of point. So now we need to um make the merge. Okay. We need to make the merge all of point together. Okay. So we need to merge all of point together. Suppose I need to merge GDF 1, GDF2, GDF3, GDF 4, GDF 5, GDF6. So all of those I simply merge. So let's join the go data frame together. So for that simply take the new cell. I take the new cell in here. take the new cell and simply join. Okay. So how I can join? We are just use the pandas function and join. So for that take a variable suppose

gdf pool. So I simply call the pandas pd from the pandas just call the concat function. It's mainly useful for joining all of those together. So I simply call the GDF1. Okay. Okay. Then just make a list all of those. So put the square bracket and then put here the GDF2 then GDF3, GDF 4, GDF 5, GDF6 and make the list. So now run the code. There is no problem. You can easily get this type of things. And if you just make the plot suppose just call the GDF full simply make the plot. So put put here at

the PL plot and run the code. So now we can get so this is the one field this is another field another field another field another field. So 1 2 3 4 5. So this type of field we can find out just simply combine uh 1 2 3 4 5 and six. Okay. So after this we simply use the help of so in this case suppose I want to work this type of data. Suppose I want to work with the uh moisture moisture data mainly moisture column I need I need the suppose speed or speed data will speed data I also need suppose with data okay with data and also work

with the eel data eel data data suppose per acre. Okay. So, per acre. So, I need this type of column. Moisture, speed, width and this e data I need. So, I need work 1 2 3 and four. Just four column I need to work. But if you check in our data set, it's have the x column, y column, time stem column. Okay. So now how I can remove this type of X column or Y column or time stamp column? I just simply remove as well as also yield column. Okay, because I want to use the E per code. So this unit I

want to use. So how I can remove the this column also time stamp column, X column, Y column or with unnecessary column how I can remove from my data set. So for that for the removing this type of data. So just take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is that I put the same variable suppose GDF full and I call my data. So basically this is the GDF full just simply copy and apply a function. It's called the drop function drop I simply use the drop function for drop out all of column unnecessary column. Okay. So now I

define the uh all of unnecessary columns. So just I use add the columns and make the list all of unnecessary column. Suppose I need to remove X, it's not need. I want to remove Y, it's not need. I want to remove the time stamp column and also remove the yield column. Column. So I simply make use this drop function and mention the column name whose column I don't need. So I simply run it. So you can see now all of column will be removed. So I want to display what happened for this. So you can see now you find out the only

for the specific column. Okay. Moisture speed width and yield. We can easily identify and now XY time and yield. So this type of column is removed from my data set. So now I want to check from my data set some statistical value. Okay. Suppose I want to identify the standard deviation value, minimum value, maximum value, then mean value or 20%, 50%, 70%, so this type of data I want to identify from from this data set. So just simply copy the data set and when you use the calculate the different types of

statistical value just apply function it's called the describe function okay describe. So when I apply the describe function it automatically you can see compute the mean of moisture value mean of speed value mean of yield value mean of e prediction value standard deviation value of the soil moisture. So minimum 25% 50% maximum value we can easily identify. So 39 this is the maximum value of moisture. This is the maximum value of the speed. This is the maximum value of the width. This is the maximum

value of the yield. We can easily get this type of information when I apply the describe function. Okay. Okay. So simply spill and check the result. >> Yeah please. What are the the unit of those data? Moisture, speed. Uh >> okay. So this unit is me. >> Yeah. Speed is the meter per second. >> Yes. >> Met per second. We is the meter soil merger millimeter. So this type of you can put any unit. You can compute this type of data. Okay. Then just simply use the same process. Okay. But it's just

simply use suppose millimeter then speed is that meter/ second width is the meter and yield is the per acre. So now suppose I in my data set have some null value. Suppose I have some null value. So I want to remove all of null value. So how I can remove the null value. So for that uh you can use the um take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is that GDF suppose full clean. So clean I simply remove all of null value. Suppose I have any column there is no data. So I simply remove this data. So just I simply call the this

call this variable and call my data set. It is stored all of data and I apply it and apply the function drop n a okay and run. So now it easily remove all of those data and store it in this variable. So now all of null value will be removed and stored in here. So now there is no null value can easily find out. Okay. So in my data set sometime suppose if you have any null value in your data set so then you can simply remove using the drop n function. So now for that we try to check the correlation okay we make the correlation

matrix between the variable and our target productivity variable okay so in this case I want to identify our um correlation metric suppose in this case our variable in this case we are just using the merure it's one kind of variable then speed then we okay so this and also yield data so this is my variable. This is the variable. Okay, prediction variable or it also say the uh variables. Okay. And our target productivity. So our productivity I want to identify using the geometry. Okay. Using the geometry I want to identify

the productivity or using the point I want to identify productivity and this is my variable. All of those are the variable. So now I want to create the um confusion matrix table. So from the confusion matrix table we try to identify correlation. Okay. Suppose which one is the more correlation. Okay. So which one is the less correlation? We can easily get this type of idea from here. for making the correlation first of all we simply probe out the geometry okay because geometry is not need when I make the correlation so

I need only for this type of variable this type of variable so for that just take a variable suppose I put the variable name either suppose DF cool and then I want to identify okay we upload the another package it's called the matt plot li because I want to make the confusion matrix or correlation matrix using the matt plot li and make the chart okay of the uh correlation metric chart anyway so import m plot library piplot as plt and also So import seborn as SNS. So now we simply drop out the geometry

column. So I simply call this GDF full clean and apply the growth and mention the column columns equal just put the column name is geometry. Okay. So now this geometry is removed from this data set. If you check the data set suppose DF pool and just show you can see there is no geometric column. So now we want to make the correlation between this type of variable. So how I can make the correlation use this type of variable. So for that simply call the plt. I want to make the figure. So I put the figure

and apply the fixed size. I define suppose fix size is 12. I just define fixed size. After that I want to add suppose heat map. I want to create the heat map using this type of variable or correlation. So for that just put the SNS. Okay. This is the seaborn library. This seab library help you to create the heat map or correlation heat map. we can easily generate using this library. So just I call my data set. So this is my data set. This is my data set. So this data set I want to use and I create the heat map. So put here

the heat hit heat map and apply this data set and I just apply the correlation function or core function. Okay. So now run the code. So it create this type of heat map but not showing the value. Okay. So moisture value, speed value, we don't find out the correlation value. This type of variable just create the heat map. So I want to add this type of value. So just I add the annotation. So put here the not equal true. Put the comma sign. So now you can see find out this type of correlation value for each variable for

the weight you can see moisture speed weight and yield. Then we find out the you can see the yield width speed moisture. So it kind of uh matrix we find out the this type of matrix we can generate. Okay. And you can see this type also check the le about that. So it's indicating about the high correlation this type of color and this type of color indicating about the low correlation value we can also find out in here as well as if you want you can also uh define the minimum and maximum value. So I define suppose uh v

min= minus one and v max= + one and run the code. So now it also get this type of result we can easily identify. Okay. So this is the correlation matrix we generate for our variable. So now how I can apply the machine learning in this case how I can apply the machine learning. So in the machine learning when you apply so in this time we apply the linear regression method linear regression and we create the variable X and Y divided data into training and testing and applied the linear regression model. Okay. So these

are main main output. So we create the X and Y. Okay. X and Y data. Okay. So let's go try to create the X and Y. So this data we just simply spilled X and Y. So data set is built into X and Y for training and testing and further applied the linear regression. model. So this is our main goal. We are just create the skill the data X and Y And this is our full data. So this is your data set. So now I just take a variable x. All right. So just I simply x equal. So I call this data set. So from this data

set I apply the drop function to remove the column. So I simply define the columns columns equal and put the column name. So I have to remove this column and also take another Y. Sir. >> Yeah, please. >> Now we are going to use X. Which data is going to be X? >> So we create the >> X is dependent variable is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. >> Now which data which column is going to be independent variable. >> So now we are just use only for this type of data. Okay. Only for this type

of suppose with speed and mer column. Okay. It is in the X because I removed the this this this one. Okay. >> Yes. Now three columns remain. >> Yes. Yes. So we are just without this column we simply take others column. Okay. So this is our property and Y column this variable store. Okay. Suppose this Y. So from the DF from this data set it just take only for the E data. Okay. only for the eel data. Okay. So you can see this is this column this X X basically we are just remove this ill data and store other data

moisture speed width and moisture speed and width but Y these are target variable. So Y we simply input the ill data okay and spill the data. So now >> yeah. So if you check now suppose for the X just X we can get this type of thing. Suppose I want to print the Y we find out only for this type of ill data. Okay. So we can create the two data set. We simply spilled X and Y. X is stored our properties. So this is the property or this is the property and Y is the our target. Okay. Y is our target. We want to make the yield

prediction. So your target is the y. So now x all the input variable we can input without yield and y is the yield values. Okay. Which I which I want to predict. Okay. So this is my target. Y is my target. So now if you check the shape suppose just recall the Y dot shape sorry Y is the upper case. So if I know the total how much training sample shape is 628. It means that this data have total 628. We find out 628 values or point information. 628 prediction or eel data 628 we find out. So now when we apply the

machine learning or linear regression we need to import some library. So first library I simply put from skarn dot model selection and import train test spill. Okay, just simply import the train test skill data and then from skarn import our model. This model called the linear linear model. Then from uh skarn dot linear model and import the package package is reads And then from skarn and also um linear same linear model and import the lasso. So now import all of those there is no problem and you can simply

search here suppose skarn model. So now we can easily get the different types of you can see. So we can simply linear just simply click on here. So you can get the some theoretical part about that you can see the supervised learning. So we can use the different types of linear model. Okay. So lasso is one kind of linear model. Okay. Ration and classification. We also import the r lesso. Okay. Or also you can see different perceptron or passive. So it used for the other another way. So you can see so you ready to read this

type of thing for the cyc learn model. we can get some theorical part. Suppose I simply click on the lasso. So now I can see how we can easily use the lasso. Then we can easily get the idea for the lasso. Lesso you can see the lasso. Less is a linear model that estimate the experts coefficient. It useful some extent due to it the tendency to provide the solution. So this type of theoretical part we can easily get from the this scikit learn website. So user guide you can see. So it's helpful. You

can also get some demo data set also for the practice. Okay. So you also try to read this type of scikit website then you get the lot of idea about this type of theoretical part how it will work this type of model. So I simply import this type of model and take the new cell. So now I need to spill the data. Suppose uh some train set and some test set. Train and test I need to spill the data. So I have two data you can see that I have the X data and I also have the Y data. Okay. So this I need the X

test and X train. I also need the Y test and Y train. So then I split. So for that I simply take the variable. Suppose I put the variable name is X train. I take another variable suppose X test then another variable suppose Y train then put Y test okay so I simply put the X train X test Y train Y test and I just spill the data using this function this function called the train test field just I copy and paste here. So now you define the X and Y. So I simply define X and Y. So I already uh spilled the X and Y. You can say X and

Y. So I simply define. So now how much training sample how much train? So I want to train suppose 70% data I want to train and 30% data I want to test. So just input here the test test test size equal 0.3 I simply define the test side 0.3 and then random stat it's a 42 default we are used the 42 okay that is no problem so we define the test site 30%. So now it automatically take the 70% for the train. So when I define the suppose 0.4 then it automatally take the train set 60%. Okay. So I put the 30% test set and

70% for the 10 and the data. Okay. So X train Y X test Y test run the code. So now if you check the Xrain data suppose Xrain. So now you find out this type of X train data. If you check the shape. So we find out this is the shape XR. Suppose I to check the shape for X Y train or X test. I will check. Okay. This is the X test. Okay. So this is a 30% data. This is 70% data for X train and X test and then suppose you check for Y train Y train shape we find out and suppose Y test shape okay find out this type of data. So now

we spill the data. Okay. So now I want to use the X train and Y train. I just use the X train and Y train to train my model. Okay. To train my model, I just use this XR and Y train. So how I need to create the model. So how I can make the model? So for creating the model so we simply take a variable suppose model equal and I call the linear model. So I already define you can say the linear model and from here I put the linear regression function regression regression function linear regression function simply call and run the model

is okay. So after this creating the model, so this model I need to connect with my train set. Okay. So just I simply call the model and then apply the fit function for train. So I train X train just like copy and also define the Y train. And train my data. So it train we find out this type of regression if you check. So we find out this type of uh you can see the parameter. Okay we find out this type of parameter but they can also copy also copy this type of true. Okay total. Okay. So now we this we create this

model. Okay. So now this model I simply train my model X train and Y train. So now I want to check some um coefficient. Okay I want to check some coefficient suppose uh this model you can also also uh can predict. Okay suppose okay I let me show for the predict first how I can predict using this model. So this is my model. Okay. So now I want to predict. Okay. So for that just take a variable suppose Y. Suppose I put the variable as the Y. Predict equal call the model. So this is my model. Okay. This model I

simply connect uh this model use the predict function. predict the X test. So just call the X test and run the code. So it predict. So now we want to check suppose prediction score. Okay. Or model score or model uh score. So for that simply call the model and apply the score and for a score basically X frame X frame and also call the Y train. So now you find out the model square 71% you find out that for the model performance and then if you check the >> 71 is is >> yeah yeah please

>> is that 71 or 7% 0.07 >> yeah 0.07 yeah 0.07 07. >> So it it is 7% not 71. >> Yeah. 7%. Yeah. 7%. >> So is that score is reasonable. Oh, it is very >> it's it's a demo data. It's not the accurate data. >> Okay. >> Okay. So you when you work the practically then you just more about the more accurate data. Okay. So it's just a demo that we create for the practice. And suppose you want to check for the model for for the test set. So for that

simply call the model and score. For the score we simply put uh x test and y test. So x test and also put the y test. So you can see only four only for the test score and also train score we calculate from our after creating the model. Okay. As well as we can also compute suppose different other metrics. Suppose I want to compute from this model I want to compute suppose uh mean absolute error. Okay. Suppose me ea mean absolute error or I can compute suppose um mean square error. Okay, mean square

error as well as you can also compute the uh root mean root mean square error. So this type of uh matrix we can also compute. Okay. So suppose for that we need to import the one library another library to compute this type of things. So just I simply put the from skarn skarn matrix matrix skarn matrix and import mean absolute error. Okay. And also mean square error. So just use the same. So from this library we simply import this mean absolute error and also mean squared squar error. we just simply import.

So now we'll compute suppose um mean square mean absolute error. I take a variable and then just call this function mean absolute error mean absolute error between y test and also prediction value. So y predict. So now it compute the mean absolute error. Okay. So then simply print then you get the idea. Suppose mean is MSE. Mean squared error. I want to compute. So just call the mean squared error. I want to just call this library and then put here the y test and y predict. So then we find out that our

prediction mean squared error. Then I want to compute suppose root mean square error. So root mean square error. Uh we need to apply the function square root of mean square error y test and y predict. Okay this is the formula about that. Okay. So for that just take the variable R M S E and call call the square root. So a square root function we can this function you find out from the numpy. Okay let let me import the numpy suppose import numpy as np. Okay just I simply import the numpy because we also need the numpy

in here. So import the numpy. I call the np. Okay. and apply the sqrt square root square root of mean squared error. I simply call the mean square root error between y test and y predict. Okay. Then we find out the result for root min. So now run the code. So further simply print the result suppose print. So first one is show the result for mean absolute this one. Okay. Then print this one is for it represent the mean squared squared error. So just call the MSE And then if you check suppose print

it's indicating about the root mean squared error. Okay just define RMS and run the code. So now we can get all of resil you can see for the mean absolute error for our model mean square error or root mean square we can easily identify this type of things from here. Okay. So now we can um create this type of things and if you want you can also check suppose coefficient. Okay, suppose we can also check the coefficient for each variable. I want to compute the coefficient for each variable. So for that we simply use the another

code to check the coefficient coefficient value. Okay. Cofficient value. Cofficient value for is variables. So how we can check for the cofficient value for each variable? So for that we simply create a loop or create a function. So then we can easily put all of those. So for that simply take the fore I put the for loop for and I take a variable suppose idx comma I just put the column take another was column name in in I use a function inner in okay n N U M E R A T E right and define the X train

simply call the X frame. Okay X frame and put at the columns columns. Okay. So I just create column in this type of Xrain. Basically in the Xrain we find out the three column. Okay three column. Three column basically three different variable. Suppose for mer speed and width we find out the three different variable in here in the x column. So just I use in here. So for that I simply print print coefficient. So just I call my model. So model because I put the model you can say when I make the model I put the

model. So from this model I simply check the coefficient. So put the co E F. Okay. Cofficient coefficient. This is the function. This is the function. This function help you to compute the coefficient from your column is variable. Okay. Is variable. And I define this idx. Just I define idx. Okay. So we need to define the another function dot format. Okay. Format function close the brackets. So we just take the data this format. File shape problem. Okay. Dot format. Okay. Let me Okay. Let me try without

format. Okay fine you can see so this is the one coefficient this is another coefficient this is another coefficient value but we are don't understand about the which value this is the speed or so what do we need to add the another information okay so just simply add some extra put suppose I simply write here the coefficient suppose for I put the empty is also put the empty so it show the name okay it show the name and then put dot format. I just use this format and format will be I put the column

name. Okay, just I put the column name. So this column name and define the model coefficient and close the bracket. So now you can see I think so you can see now we find out this type of result. So each column suppose for the moisture we find out this coefficient value speed we find out this type of coefficient value we find out this type of coefficient value. So if you want you can also add the more other variable. So in this case we for the example we set the only for the three variable. So then

we also check the all of variable coefficient value. Okay. If you check suppose so this is the process because in this time we just add only for three variable that's why it show only Okay. So now our model is done. Okay. We create the model and also check this type of accuracy. Okay. So now after create the model, we need to apply this model to our complete data set. Okay, in our complete data set, we simply apply this model. So let's go how we can apply how to apply this model in our complete

data set. So for that we simply um just make the combine all of data suppose just take a variable GDF to predict. So I call the PD pandas and put the concat function. Okay. To combine all of all of data basically this type of data GDF 1, GDF2. Okay. We simply combine all of data. All of that is simply combined all of Jata frame. So I just make a list and put it the GDF one then GDF2 then three then four then five finally six okay and make the list this type of data. So now run the code. Okay, we have to use the underscore

because we put the variable name with underscore. Okay, so it's okay. So now if you just show the result suppose just GDF. So I can say we find out this type of data X Y time stamp mer speed wind yield. Okay, we find out this type of column. But now I want to remove all of those column. Okay, suppose this type of column I want to remove. Okay, I'll just remove all of column. All of column from my data set. So how I can remove? So just use the drop function. So just put here the I use the same variable.

Okay. and call this same and apply the drop function drop and mention the column name. So put here the columns and make the list all of columns which I drop. So I want to drop X. I want to drop Y. I want to drop time stamp time stamp. I want moisture. Then I want to drop speed. Then I want to drop weight. So simply drop out all of column and also yield. and also this column. Finally geometry column. Okay. So I simply write all of column and just apply the drop out function. So now run the code.

it also. Okay. So now if you check the variable this variable just store it only for the index only for the index. Okay. So in this case why I remove all of those and just keep only for the index because I want to add the prediction column. Okay. just I remove all of those and I want to add the prediction column based on the index. Suppose for the first for the first point what is the prediction yield I need to add in here for the second point what's the prediction yield I simply add in here

for the third number point what is the prediction data I simply add so for the region I simply remove all of column in my data set and then I skip only for the index okay that's only for the index so based on the index I simply add all of prediction data or prediction column I simply add based on the index. So let's go how we can easily add the prediction column. So for that just take the new cell to connect the prediction column. So just take a variable suppose full predict and call the model.

So I already define the model. So this is my model I want to use and apply the predict function. predict And after that predict using the index this model. So now run the code. It show a problem. This problem is that variable exit. Okay. Predict using the linear regression. It show the problem. At least one array data type is required. Okay, at least one array. Okay, in this case it's called that at least one array data table is required. Okay, so I simply Okay, I just only for the one array.

Suppose I just take only for the moisture. Okay, and remove all of those. So now try to check again run and also Suppose I just keep only for the only for the end. we can get only for the more speed and width. So now I want to predict. Okay. So it's working here. Okay. So we need at least we need to add the one array. Okay. Not need to remove all of those. So I simply keep only for this moisture speed and width. Okay. Or you can take only for the moisture or speed or wind or take the any one column.

Okay. Not only for the index. Okay. For this this the requirement. So now I try to predict. Okay. There is no problem. So if you just simply try to show the result. So it create this type of prediction that I can see this type of prediction yield for each point. But these things I want to add as a column. Suppose I create another column which represented the prediction column for each point. Okay. Is point it display the prediction column. So for that I simply create a column and add the data with my column. So for that uh

just call so I want to add the column suppose I to add the column in here. Okay add another column in here. So just call this variable and create the column name. So just put the column name. I put the column name suppose yield predict I put this type of column name then put the equal sign and call the full predict just I copy and paste here. So now this type of data is stored in this column is stored in this column. So now run the code. Okay. And I want to display the result. So just I copy. So now it's added the new you can see

find out that yield prediction. Okay. So I hope you also get the idea how we can easily predict the yield for the point. Okay. Suppose for this point or for this coordinate the yield for this point. So it create the yield prediction column. We simply connect. Okay. >> Yes. >> Okay. So now for the we display the map. So one by one I try to show you that how we can easily create the productivity map. So it show the only for the numeric value for each coordinate. Each coordinate we just apply the linear

regression model and further we simply predict our value for each coordinate for this coordinate we simply predict our value. So now we try to discuss about that how we can add the productivity map using this type of prediction result using this type of prediction map or prediction data how we can easily add the productivity map for our agricultural land. Okay. So let's go and try to show you that how we can easily work with that.

Class 10

Hello everyone, welcome welcome to the study hacks institute of GIS and remote sensing. Today I will try to discuss a very important topic mainly how we can easily use the water productivity data set in Google Earth Engine. So now if you check this news so this is the W for remote sensing for water productivity data is now available on Google Earth Engine but this data set is not added in the data catalog in art engine but we can also use the identifiers and then we can easily access all of data for that

worker and this data set if you check we can find out this type of identifiers. So this type of identifiers we can easily use in our code editor and further we can easily access this type of data. So from this data we can easily get the actual evapo transpiration then evapo transpiration then transpiration then interception then net primary production then reference evapo transpiration and this data set is very high resolution we find out. So first of all if you check level two data it's a 100 m resolution and level one data is

the 300 m resolution. So this type of data we can easily use and further we can do different types of analysis. So today's session discuss about that how we can use this war data set in the agriculture precision area and identify different types of uh product from that. So let's go ahead to discuss. So here I already developed suppose this is my agricultural land. So this type of agricultural land I want to identify different types of product using wpper data. So if you check first of all I try to add the

layer for net primary production. So now we can easily identify which um prop plant have the uh high net primary production. We can easily identify from this type of data. And if you check then it's a your interception. So then we can easily get that which crop plan have a high interception which product crop plan have a low interception. Same as uh transpiration we also get you can see. So from here will identify which crop plan have a high transpiration same as transpiration and also actual transpiration.

Okay. Then reference resation. You can get this type of things from here. As well as uh this is the level two. Level two is that we find out the data set uh resolution is 100 m resolution. But level two is the 300 m resolution. So this is the level two data set. If you check we find out this type of resolution. Okay. Same as like you can see this type of data. So this type of you can easily use in um Google engine. So for that so simply uh import your study area and then further simply put your time period. So in this

time I just put this time period or in any specific season you can also put there is no problem and further we simply create all of data set we make a dictionary and we put the keyword and key value for this type of data. Suppose this is the level one. Then we put the this type of keyword and this type of this is the identifiers of this data set. So simply make the list all of identifiers for individual keyword. Okay, keyword and key value. Basically you can put any name as a keyword but in this put this type of

name and further I simply put the identifiers. Okay, this identifiers you can easily get from this website. You can see there also provide all of identifiers. So simply copy and then simply paste in here and after that we simply make the visualization parameter for individual data set. You can put any visualization and then in this case this data set is simply max with the specific crop uh land and also fresh this type of area. So that's why I can get the result only for microp plant area okay or vegetation

area others land it not showing this type of data. So first for that we can simply use here the world dynamic data set. So this the world dynamic data set I simply use and I selected this type of specific classes suppose 1 4 2 3 5 which indicating about the forest cropland or trees. So this type of classes simply choose and further I simply create the marks okay with this type of classes as well as I also add the time series chart if you check. So this is a time series chart. So we find out the time

series chart. This is a time series actual above transpiration time series chart between this time period. So we can easily get that this type of time series chart when is the peak of growth st then what the scenario of the actual evopo respiration. Then if you check this is the transpiration data set times chart. This is the transpiration. Okay. T for transpiration. And also if you check we find out the I for interception. Okay. So here the interception is very high. Okay. We can easily get this type of idea from this

time three chart. Also this is the net primary production data set time three chart. Also you can see the reference transpiration time three chart. Okay. We can find out and if you check this is the uh reference transpiration data set. Okay. So it simply marks trees, crops and vegetation. Okay. So that's why this time we find out only for those uh area for that trees, crops and vegetation. So you can see all of time chart we can find out in here. Okay. As well as we can easily use the water productivity

data set in Google Earth engine using this way and you can easily export this type of uh data geot file and further you can also make the map. So this is the great uh data set we can easily use for the different purpose in the water productivity data set. So now this data set version three this data is now available. We can easily use this data to get this type of information actual respiration transpiration transpiration interception net primary production reference transpiration they can use for

the different purpose. So I hope this tutorial is also help you. If you have any question you can simply make the comment I also give the answer. In the meantime, I also give you an announcement for upcoming online training program for that 7 days online training program. It will be start on 26th September. So if you want to join this online training program and take the live session from me there you can simply contact in this WhatsApp number. You can also contact with my email to book your seat. So in this online

training program basically you will learn all of those from beginners to advanced level on Google Earth Engine. If you have no knowledge about the coding or if you have no knowledge about the remote sensing then you can easily learn all of those and then further you can easily apply. So if you check all of course content for that course and further if you want to join then simply contact in our WhatsApp number and also contact in our email. So today's no more. Thank you for watching that. Stay

happy stay safe.

Class 11

Okay. Hope previous class material did you get? Yeah. All of materials for previous class. >> Yes. Yes. >> Okay. I already sign before. >> Yeah. Please. >> I was trying to pass through those those plastic glass but I saw we used the land surface temperature band therma band. >> Yeah. But the model requires us to use the short infrared band. So I want to know if we use the short infrared band or we use the thermal band the model will be the same in the same of structure the

trapezoid shape will be the same. >> Yes. Yes. So for this uh model we try to for the sentinel two there is no band for that surface temperature that's we use convert. So short wave infrared uh this band we try to convert into S str okay okay using the formula we simply convert it okay then we try to use for that okay no problem I also share the code with you about this then you can easily get the idea okay for the signal to share okay so I'll share with you this code also >> okay So,


Class 12

Hello. Good evening. Can you hear me? >> Yes, sir. Good evening. >> Yeah. How are you? >> I'm fine, sir. How about you? >> Yeah. Alhamdulillah. Everything is good from my side. >> Yes. Yes. Okay. So, basically today discuss about some advanced topic on remote sensing or soil and water management. Okay. such as soil PS as well as we discuss about that soil moisture using multi- satellite imagery such as landsite or sentinel this type of multisspectral remote sensing how we

can use and make the soil moisture also we talk about that prop water stress monitoring so let's wait to discuss about all of those step by step so let me share my screen. Uh yeah. Can you see my screen? Is it visible? >> Not yet. It's coming. >> Okay. So now it's okay. >> Yes. Now it's coming. >> Okay. So let's go start. Okay. So previous class I discussed about this type of topic. Some topic is not completed such as uh prop stress monitoring or also soil moisture and

also soil PS. Okay. So first of all I discuss about that uh soil moisture. Yeah. So we already know about the some data set. Okay. But this type of data have a problem because uh this type of data is not the good resolution. Okay. we find out that uh soil moisture from S map. So this type of data uh is very pixel size is very high okay 9,000 m. So that's the region we need to apply the different types of model in remote sensing. So one model is called that uh this model uh this is the optical traoid

model. So it's very popular model to identify soil moisture. So this is the new variant of the optical graphite model of remote sensing for soil moisture and water bodies. So in this paper they are mainly explain about this method how they create this type of model. So optical visual model. So this type of model we try to implement using remote sensing and further we can easily monitor the soil moisture. Okay, because uh it's very high resolution than others blend set or sentinel when you apply

then we can easily use the opam model up basically short form it's a optical trapezoid model this the full form optical trapezoid model so this model we can easily use and further we can easily compute the soil moisture okay So let's go I will try to explain all of those things it will give the idea. So in this model we find out that uh this is the chart about the optical trapezoid model. So in this chart if you check this the x column we find out the ndvi and y column we find out the str

basically it's a short wave infrared reflectance. Okay. So this is the str we find out that and we can get that uh these two things. Okay, let me open the code editor then it more better. >> So this model basically it's uh it's different. >> Sir >> Yeah, please. Sir can you please can you please remove that >> small popup window? Yes. >> So first of all this model we find out that NDVI okay NDVI basically normalized difference vegetation index measure the

vegetation density and health. So this is the one factor for this model. Okay. It's measurement the vegetation density vegetation density as well as an health. Okay. Vegetation health we can easily identify using the NDA. Another is that it called the SI. So this is the another factor. So this is the short wave infrared reflectance. Okay. this short wave infrared reflectance uh it's sensitive to the soil mer okay so it's sensitive sensitive for to soil merure to soil moisture okay so this is the short wave infrared

band is soil moisture because water body absorb the strongly okay water body water body. Water body uh water body strongly strongly absorb absorb in the S SIR or shortwave infrared region because uh it's strongly absorbed. So that's why soil moisture is very sensitive for this band SIR. Okay. And when you plot NDVI versus S SWIR reflectance for all pixel then we find out this type of traoe model. We find out this type of traiso weight model. Okay. So this is the STR. Okay. Short wave infrared reflectance.

Another is the NDVI. So when you um plot okay all pixel in an an image we find out the trapezoid shape we find out the trapezoid shape and this traid shape we find out this type of things first one it's called that your top corner top left corner okay top top left corner okay left corner so basically it's a trapezoid shape and in this trapezoid shape we find out the top left corner in the top left corner. Uh it's called the dry bare soil. Dry bear soil. Okay. In the top left corner.

Okay. Dry bar soil. And the top right corner top right corner we find out wet bare soil. Wet bare soil. Then bottom left, bottom left, bottom left we find out that dry vegetation, dry vegetation. And finally bottom right. Bottom right we find out wet and dense hesitation. Vesitation. Okay. So this is the uh so basically uh when this we find out the graph shape. So when you plot suppose when you plot NDVI versus SR when you plot then we find out the trapezoid shape. crafty Zy shaped. Okay. In this shape in the top

left corner we find out the dry dry bare soil because in this time in the top bare soil we find out that high high short web infrared and low NDVI. Okay. So in this region in the top left corner we find out that high SWIR value and low NDVI value. So that's why it's called the dry bare soil. Okay. And then second in the top right corner it called the weight bear soil because in this time we find out that low S wir and also low NDVI low NDVI. So in this jone in the top right corner it called the bear wet bare soil because

we find out the low S swir and low NDVI. Okay, the weight bare soil and finally another in the top in the bottom left we find out the dry vegetation because in this region we find out that your NDVI is very high. Okay, we find out the NDVI is very high. So high high NDVI. Okay. And D vegetation, it's also highend DPI. We find out it's a highend DVI. >> And and and so high DPI it means to be low is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Because because because S S indicating about the water.

Okay. You can say I already say about the water body is the strongly absorbed this band. Okay. So suppose I find out the vegetation this type of place but then we find out the low s okay we find out the some water basically in the all of trees have some small water so but it not me high okay low s find out in here the same for the bottom right so in this paper you can see also find out this type of shape you can see the we find out that the top left corner okay then also find out that top right corner

bottom left and also bottom right So the position of each pixel inside the trapezoid reflect and it's called the soil moisture condition. Okay inside in the trapezoid reflect okay so in this this portion we find out that it's a soil mo you find out in in inside on the trapezoid all of pixel indicating about that. So now you can see they also calculated this type of formula. You can see SIR. So in this formula dry and wet is can be determined. You can see we find out the dryest and wetness. So now why a trapezo

two main reasons because vegetation and soil moisture. So why a trap? Why it show the trapezoid this type of model. So I'll explain about that suppose. So why a traffic? So first of all visitation vegetation. So veget NDVI increase with dense vegetation. Okay. So, NDVI NDVI this NDVI increase increased with vegetation density. Okay. Suppose if the NDVI is high dense vegetation, it increase the NDVI value and vegetation max soil reflectance. Okay. and vegetation. Vegetation marks soil reflectance.

Reflectance reflectance. And finally another one is that soil moisture. So in this case what happened? A s WIR this band reflect reflect tense decrease decrease as soil moisture increases decreases as soil moisture incre increases because I suppose soil moisture increases because we find out that water absorbs water absorbs S wir radiation radiation. Okay. So this is the region. So as NDVA increase suppose as NDVA increase both dry and wet soil show lower SI reflectance. Suppose some place NDVA is very high then both dry and wet

soil show the lower S SI reflectance but the gap between dry and wet is narrow and forming a traffic weight rather than a simple triangle. Okay. So now suppose NDV is increase or more vegetation then we find out the both dry season dry or wet soil both of soil. If the NDV increase we find out the lower SIR reflectance okay but the gap gap between dry and wet is narrow and forming a this type of graph model. Okay this type of graph will forming. So that's the region we find out it's a um

this type of shape. But now we discuss about the what is the dest what is the weightage. So let's go. So this is the component of this model. Components components. So in this model components first components we already know it's a dry dry basically this this one dryest and you can see this is the weights we find a dryest and wetness these are two as well as pixel position okay so we try to use the what is the dryest dryest uh it's the upper boundary of the traffic joint and represent the maximum reflectance of

SIR bands for each indiv VI level. So I also write it. Suppose it's indicating about that upper upper boundary boundary of trapezoid trapezoid upper boundary of the trapezoid and it represent it represents maximum maximum s reflectance. If friends okay for is NDVI level okay it show the maximum reflectance that this is the dest okay so physically we find out it's in the uh bare or dry soil or or it was stressed stress hesitation. Okay, we find out the dest region and then what is the uh

weight is? Weight is this weight is lower boundary of the trapezoid lower boundary of trapezoid and it represent the minimum. Okay. It represent the minimum S swir reflectance S SW reflectance for is NDVI levels. This is the weight and brightness. And finally pixel position. Pixel position it's this is the another component. So this is the third component. It's called the pixel position. So in the pixel position what happened? Any pixel in the trapezoid lies between dry and wetness. Okay. So

and its relative distance from the dryest tell us how wet to dry is it. We can find out from here. Okay. So first of all let's go I practical example then you can get the idea how we can work with the soil moisture using using this model. Okay. So first of all we try to uh import our study area. So which area you want to monitor. So let's go just simply import the study area. Any crop plan anything you can simply do. So let me just try to make this model for this study area. because this is my study. I simply draw

a area line. So this is my stud area. Okay. And I put the name as a R Y R Y. So for this area I want to monitor the soil moisture using the optra model. Okay. So optical trap model. So now I want to use suppose um landset imagery just I simply upload just simply get the browse data catalog and then I want to just work with the landset. Click on the lens set and I want to work with suppose lens set 8 and then I just choose the surface repenseance. Okay. Then simply copy this snippet ID and take a variable

suppose lens set eight and equal and paste. So now simply filtering this image collection we already know about that. So just filter bounds with our stud area which is R Y then put the filter date. Suppose I put the date year of 2020 2024 1 January from year of 2025 suppose uh January 1st January. So I take the one year 2024. So just I put this type of time period and after that I just simply filter the cloud cover. So I put here the filter and put here art engine. filter dot suppose less than I choose cloud cover

less than suppose one so now let's check how many images are available so print the lens set h and use the size function so now computing how many images are available for my stud area we find out only for the six image okay we try to use it all of images so now this image uh we find out and this image we need to use. Uh first of all we need to re repro the scale value. If you check this image have this type of things you can check we find out the this type of scale value and also find out the offset value. So

now we simply multiply all of images and also add all of offset value to convert the your surface reflectance value. Okay. So for that we try to create a function. Okay. Just we create a function. So in this case I just use the I take the another variable suppose I I take create a function. So I put a variable name suppose scaled scaled LST or scaled uh L8. Okay. So now I just create a function. So create a function I put the element name suppose img and put my argument. So what is my argument? My argument is that all of

image I just simply multiply with this scale value and also of self value. This is my argument. So for that take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is that sr equal and then I call the element name img. This element I want to multiply with this scale. So my scale is that uh zero on this scale just like copy and use it and also add the offset value. This is the offset value uh negative 0 0.2. This is my offset. Just like copy and paste. Okay. So you find out simply reflects this type of things. And not

only for that I also select the image band. So you can say I want to select all of bands suppose SRB 1 to SRB 7. So all of bands I want to select. So for selecting all of bands just apply another function dot select and select SR dot and also put the this okay star. Yeah it's the means that all of we just considered and if you want you can also put the SR suppose SR SR B. So then what happened then SRB you can see SRB 1 SRB2. So we can see this just I simply mention this SRB and underscore and when I put the it including all of

bands SRB 1 to SRB 7 because it is same sequence we find out. Okay just I put this type of bands and also multiply and also add. So now these two parameter I compute in here. So I want to compute NDVI using this all of bands for all of images. Okay. So for that I create this function. So I need to compute the NDVI as well also compute the your brightness temperature okay or LST or brightness temperature we comput it. So for that uh just take a variable suppose NDVI and I just call the SR. Okay just I copy the SR because this it

is storeed all of image multiply and also addition with my scale factor and I want to compute suppose N DVI. Just apply normalized. Normalized difference. Normalize difference I apply between two band SR B4 5 near infrared and SR B4. This we simply define and I rename it dot rename rename as a NDVI. we put the name as NDVI. Okay. So as well as you compute the your brightness temperature. So for that just take a variable I put the variable name suppose LSD and I do compute using this image. So just I call

the element name. Okay. And in this element from this element I select the brightness temperature band. If you check brightness temperature band we find out in here STB 10. Okay. This is the brightness temperature band and this is the scale value and offset value. Okay, we also need to use it. So just I paste here. Paste here and then apply multiply function. Multiply this SQL value and also add the offset value. Okay, this is the offset value 149 just copy and paste. So we compute it and also rename it. Suppose I just I put the dot

rename as a LST. Okay, so we compute the NDVI and also compute the brightness temperature using all of images. Okay, just create a function. So after creating this function what I return? So we need to combine we need to combine the LST and NDVA these two band we simply combine. So for that uh I simply mention in here return. So I want to return return and I want to combine. So put here E dot image dot cat function to combine between uh NDVI NDVI and also LST. So simply combine and then we simply copy. Yeah.

>> What if I write return maybe img advent and will it function? Okay. So in this case we try to combine NDVI and LST. We are just make combine the two band just simply just make the single store it in a single variable. Okay. NDV and LST. So further we simply compute NDVIN and LST and then we return this E image.cat. These two things we simply add okay combine these two things using the E.cat. After that we simply copy these properties and apply all of images. So put the copy properties.

Copy properties from element and apply all of. So put here the img dot property names. So just we copy the all our property names. So now this is our function we computed. This function we need to connect with our collection. So what is my collection? This is my collection. We already compute. So for connecting just use the map function. Just paste and apply the dot map function bracket start and also close the bracket. So now if you check just print and check what happened just print and call the

skilled el. So this is my and run the code. So now you find out this type of six images and if you check the all of images just click on here and check the band. So we find out the only for the two band NDVA and elastic NDIC we find out you can just simply combine the two bands together okay NDV for each images total six image I have for my study area less than 1% so just I simply find out the two bands NDVI and LST six images okay you can see we find out only the two bands NDVI and LSD So now these things we need to from this

NDVI we just choose only for high NDVI values. Okay. Suppose high NDVI values we simply choose suppose greater than 0.4 or 0.3. Okay. this type of individual we simply choose and this thing we simply uh com uh update marks with our LST value okay so basically find out the LST full cover area and also LST bare land area okay suppose for the LST when you identify for the vegetation so suppose we need to create a threshold value suppose I choose greater than 0.4 four and take all of pixel of NDVI and then

max with my LST layer when I take the bar length so how I can define the bar length suppose we choose NDVI less than 0.2 or greater than equal zero and less than 0.2 a lower value of NDVI we simply consider. So let's go try to do it. So just take a variable suppose I put the variable name uh LST suppose hi NDV I can put any equal. So now create a function. So I put the function keyword. I put the element suppose img. So in this time what is my argument? My argument is that I just select NDVI value.

Okay. So for that take a variable suppose NDVI I equal then call the image and select the band my band name is NDVI this is the band name NDVI and I choose suppose greater than 0 3 okay and then this thing simply uh update marks with the condition of LST. Okay. So for that take a variable. Suppose I put the variable name is that LST LST high I put and call the image and choose LS. Select select the band of LST. LST LST and this thing simply update max update max with this variable NDVI high just copy

and paste here. Okay. And now what I return? So from here I just return return this lst just like copy and paste here and then simply copy of properties for all. Just put here the copy proise copy properties all of images same and also provide the property name. So just put here the image dot proper property names. Just we simply define and now these things we simply connect with our collection NDVI collection and LST connection we already combine and it is stored in this variable scale elect just

I copy and connecting just paste here and use the map function and so close. Okay. So now we create this function and if you print suppose just print an als high NDVI just throw the result just copy and paste and run the code. So first time we simply find out that NDVI for the higher LST for the high NDVI range. Okay, we find out this image collection. Okay, we'll find out. Okay, this image escalation is stored the LST for higher NDVI. Okay, high value of NDVI. So now we try to identify another one. It's called that um suppose

low NDVI value which indicating about the baron land. Okay, which indicating about the barren land. So now we simply take that same code which try to use in here. But in this case we simply put the range only for the low value of NDVI. Okay. Then others are the same. We try to apply the same and it's called the NDVI bar. We try to identify for barren land max with the LST. Okay. So for that just I copy the same code and paste. So now I put uh LST in the low I change the variable name I put it say suppose low NVI. Okay. And I

want to identify low NDVI. How I can identify using the lowdvi >> less maybe less than >> yes so >> 0.2 >> and not for the water okay so in this time we take the range 0 to 0.2 suppose 0 to 0.2 two this range we take >> not for the uh less than zero >> so let's try to put here so I put here NDVI suppose greater than equal zero and image dot select the band of NDVI and it's less than less than 0.2 too. So I put this friends okay and I put the LST low NDVI others you can also put the

suppose I put it it's a LST LST anything you can put LST low or I can put here the NDVI low okay it doesn't matter so I put the LMI low and further these things I just apply update marks using this variable just paste here and also I return the LST low just I copy and paste here okay and others keep the same there is no problem okay I already connecting. Okay. So now if you check we'll find out um another image collection another image collection for LSTD low and DVI range which is indicating about the baron

land. Okay. So it's indicating about the barren land zone. I also comment suppose it's indicating about that barland jone. Okay. Jump and it's indicating about that high or dense vegetation. Dense vegetation vegetation zone. So then we can easily get okay. So we find out this type of things. So after computing this type of high NDVI zone or barland jone. So then we compute some uh factor. Okay. So in this factor so let's go try to explain this factor. So this is the first step to compute the your

parameter. Okay. this will take me a paper just source. Okay, this you can see you can also do the R package also. R package basically out of so this is the package name in the R package we can easily compute this type of model because it's one kind of package okay so this is the package about the optical trapezoid model and this model drive the soil moisture based on the linear relationship between the vegetation index NDV and SH so we can also apply you can see this is the this is the package of R so then we simply

input this type of thing it also possible to use very easily okay so then very short time we can easily compute. Okay, just simply import the senel to image. From the senel to 2 image, we need to prepare the NDVI and str. Okay. And then this this this library automatically perform the analysis about the your um okay can see also put some example about that. Okay. So this is the library. Okay. This library simply connect with our model and it will also work for that optical trap model. So now we compute the two things if you

check in here we compute that barrel land elastic and also compute suppose dense vegetation elastic. So after that um it's neat because you are building the temperature vegetation features space and full vegetation basically it define the vegetation is okay suppose these things it's indicating about the vegetation is so I'll write the comment it's indicating about that vegetation vegetation is okay and the um barrel land define the soil as or hotter okay so it's indicating about that

another s which is uh indicating about the soil s soil s okay and further we simply extract the thermal extreme or s anchor across the period so first of all if you okay so I'll show the term about that the first one it's called that we can say that vw okay so what is the VW BW it's indicating about the maximum LST found okay it's a maximum LST found okay and I write it's a maximum LST found okay it's a maximum LST found or compute the uh sorry VW is not maximum it's a

minimum sorry it's a minimum minimum okay BW is the minimum LST found and what is the BD VD basically it's another term so it's called the maximum LST found so it's a maximum LST founder okay so VW and VD for visitation pixel so we can use it two argument or two um factor for visitation for visitation for visitation pixels pixels we are use this okay so VW and VD what is the VW makes minimum LST found region and this region we find out in that uh coolest okay it's called the coolest

uh coolest mainly we can also say that it's a uh weight test visitation not dry visitation west vegetation Okay. And mix found it's mainly warmest or hard vegetation or or we can say that warmest warmest or you can say it's a uh it's a driest vegetation driest vegetation. Okay. So in the visitation pixel basically from from this uh the from this or dense vegetation zone. So from that we we need to compute the two things VW and VD and what is the VW? VW basically minimum LST found region it is

the coolest or wetest vegetation and VW VD the maximum LST found it's called the warmest or driest vegetation. Okay same as we find out also another things it's called the for barren land. So for for barren land for barren land pixels we find out the two another factor one is that it's called the IW IW what is the IW IW basically it's the minimum LST minimum LST and another thing is that ID okay ID is that maximum LST so two ID W and I ID. So what is where we find out the IW? I called the coolest bare

soil. Okay, coolest coolest bare soil. It's called the coolest bare soil. And we also say that it's a relatively relatively relatively uh wet soil. Wet soil. Okay. So it's minimum elasticity. It's indicating and same is the vice versa. It's called the hottest hottest dry uh bread soil. hottest bare soil. Okay. And it's a uh called the dest soil. Driest soil. Okay. So we find out the VW and V D. Okay. So now we try to compute the VD this type of factor suppose VW then BD then IW ID. So let's go try to

compute. So for that take a variable. I put the variable name suppose vw equal and I need to compute it for lst basically our vegetation pixel. Okay. VW this thing we compute from the vegetation pixel. Okay. From here. So just I copy I just I copy and compute the minimum LST from here and paste here. Okay. And I I want to compute the minimum. So I put here the LST dot min. Okay. And I to compute the value. Put here the reduce region. This function to compute the value. And then define the value. Suppose reducer. I

want to compute the minimum value. So put here uh e dot reducer dot min I compute and then I need to define the geometry. So geometry basically it's come ROI shape file variable name finally scale we put the scale 30 m for length set okay and then then it's option then I want to extract the values so put here the dot values and also put the get zero okay mainly the values of bw and it work as a um it work as a number so I define the e dot number. Okay. Define the number. So now we try to print and check the

result. What happened? Suppose BW run the code. Okay. So okay. So here we face a problem. So this okay we need to close the bracket in here >> and also remove the and parenthes. So now run. >> Yeah. Yes. >> So we find out this type of value. Okay. So it show the razor as a kelvin. Okay, we compute the kelvin. It's not doesn't matter kelvin or deg celsius. We can easily comp convert. So I I keep the kelvin. No problem. So we find out uh this is the this is the minimum LST

found. We find out this is the and it's a wetest vegetation or coolest vegetation. We find out this VW and same for the VD. Same process for the VD. Just like I copy the code. Just I copy the code. Just I copy and paste here. Okay. I put it's a BD and I compute from the vegetation pixel. I compute that maximum. So put here the max reducer. I want to compute the maximum value. I want to compute. So put here the max. And for that same I want to just just copy and paste and run the code. So now you

find out the result for your maximum. We find out this type of Kelvin. Okay, this is the this is the maximum. This is the minimum and it's called the uh it's called your we find out it's a maximum LST found or driest vegetation. We find out this type of value and this is the west vegetation IW. Okay. So I hope you get that. So now another so we try to compute for IW and also ID. IW minimum LST moleculous bare soil for the parent land pixel. Okay. So this IW and ID we need to compute for the parent land

pixel. We already define the parent land using this way. Okay. So this variable is stored. So for that just I copy the same line of code because it is the same. Just I copy and paste. So now define the barland pixel. barland pixel store it in this variable LST low end just I copy this is the parent zone and I just define in here I put it's a it's a IW IW IW is indicating about the minimum okay all of those are same I also print here the IW okay so then others keep the same so now for that waiting compute the ID.

Same process just I copy and paste and I define it's say ID. So in the ID section so same LSTVI and I put here the max because I to compute the maximum LST or hottest barrel length or hottest B soil for the driest soil. So put at the max and also put at that max and R Y I call the ID ID id. So now we can easily get this two value. Okay. For the IW and ID we find out this type of value. So now here we find out the mean and max first collection per pixel we compute. Okay. Wait. Uh okay. So now we interpretation. So

interpretation so here VW okay so I'll write it suppose in this case BW and also BD so these two things it's it's indicating about the vegetation is okay vegetation is and the vegetation is extreme over the season and also what is the ID and IW it's indicating about the soil soil or or bare soil or bare is is extreme over the season. Okay. So now after that we need to compute another things. It's called the SD and SW. Okay. So it's called the S spans. So let's go try to discuss about

that what is the age spans. So as span in the age span uh basically it's quantify how far soil and vegetation thermal stress are apart are the two moisture extreme used to parameters trapezoid or triangle geometry but trapezoid. So in this case else span it can be uh we can get the two things one is the sd is that s w. So we define the S span SD and S w. And what is the SD? S is we can write ID minus ID minus your VD. Okay. And it's indicating

Class 13

So let's go we will started today's session. So basically in today's session I discuss about some advanced topic on agriculture precision. Okay. How we can work with that mainly soil and water management. Okay. So I'll try to explain all of those then you can get the idea. Okay. Let me share my screen. >> SH before. >> Yeah please. Yes, I got all the material for the last month but I tried to to download PP so that I can I can store them in my my my local my local drive.

>> Okay. So I think it's a privately access so that's why you can get the information from the slide but you cannot download it in the locally. Yeah. So that's why >> can you let me sometime I want to read while I'm offline. >> Okay. No problem. I will try to manage and send you. No problem. Then you can easily get the all of slide in your your local computer. No problem. I will send you. >> Okay. Thank you. Thank you. >> Okay. I'll send you. >> And also you you didn't send me the the

book. You say that you send me some refund about agriculture. >> Okay. So I'll send you that directly on your email then you can easily get from the email. No problem. >> Okay. Okay. So today I discuss about that soil and water management using remote sensing. This topic I try to give the lecture and also show you the all of practical things. Then I hope you can get the idea and use this paper tech. Let me open my slides just a minute. And you remember I told you >> I can understand. Okay.

>> You remember? >> Yeah. Okay. So basically today discuss about that agriculture precision and how we can management the soil and water. We also discuss about that. Okay. and uh soil and water management in remote sensing help of Google Earth Engine try to discuss about that. So first of all uh today's discuss about this type of topic support soil moisture how we can easily monitor the soil moisture then soil pH then we also discuss about that soil health how we can easily monitor the soil health or

soil nutrient okay and then also discuss about that water balance okay so water balance basically it's help you to identify suppose for any specific crop and how much water need okay and it's it's called the water balance we also discuss about that and also discuss about that crop types analysis by phenological model so previous class I discussed about that phological model but today's discuss about that how we can identify different types of crop okay suppose in a cropland area

different types of crop suppose rice sugar can or also jud so this type of crop how we can easily we identify. So basically every crop we find out that indiv uh individual or different different phenological model for each crop we find out. Okay, we also discuss about that and soil moisture we can also monitor by landset or sentinel to satellite imagery. So this discuss about that but soil mo is also available for that uh readyate data but which is not more better. Okay, basically it's called

the modis it's a 9,000 m. Okay. Pixel size. So that's why when you work with uh small study area then we face some problem using the modis S map or soil moisture data we face some problem. So that's the reason I discuss about that how we can easily monitor the soil moisture by landset or sentinel to satellite imagery. Then you can get that as well as we also discuss about the soil salinity. Okay. soil salinity as well as also soil brightness index. We also discuss about that and how to

identify for uh soil clay or moisture. This type to explain about that and also finally uh crop water stress index. So it's very important index to identify water stress on the crop. So I'll try to explain all of those step by step then and I'll just show you the practical example then you can easily get the idea all of those. No problem. So let's go. So first of all soil and water management. Suppose first of all I try to show you the one data set it's called that S map it is a soil moisture data

set and this data set we can easily combine with sentinel 2 while composite we can also create using the S map and sentinel 2 okay so first of all I try to show you this example then okay so let's go I will try to practice also more better okay so here I add some objective about that so how we can easily map surface soil moisture absolute using map or we say identify bad soil component uh composite from the sentinal 2 and identify to uh suppress vegetation. Okay. And also compute the soil pixel uh

we can also computed the salt basically salenity and also compute about that soil brightness. Okay. And visualize interpret the layer for aic decision we can also get from this type of things. So basically this objective. So this objective we try to fill up by this practical. So let I'll show the practical example. Let me open my code editor just okay. Okay. So first of all if I just simply search here uh one data set soil moisture data set simply search here soil moisture. So this data set is not much good

resolution. So that's the reason we discuss about that another data set which is lands sentininal 2 or central one how we can easily drive the soil moisture information. We also discuss about that also no problem. But you can see this is the one kind of data it called the soil moisture. It's daily available data. Okay. So suppose just I open this data. So it's one kind of data. It's available from 2015 to 2023 December. And if you check the another data which is the yeah this one.

So it's also available from 2023 to present time. If you check this data time period so it's available from 2023 to uh present time and also check the another data set uh which is available from 2000 to 2023. So this first one data set. So this data set is available from 2015 to 2023. Okay, both are the same data but this data set is more update. So we can get that update information about the soil moisture by using this data. So this data set is available from year of 2025 23 August. Okay. So this is the last time period

about that this data set and this data set if you check this data set pixel size is the 9,000 m which is not more good when we applying for the more small study area or small crop plant. Okay. So but this data set is also lot of use for the large scale analysis suppose for the large or big study area we can easily identify the soil moisture from here. Okay. So let's go right we use this data set and identify for soil moisture and uh further we also okay so let's go just simply copy this snip ID

this is the soil mersh syn ID just copy and paste in our code editor and further just give a variable name you can put any name I put the name suppose take a variable suppose a snap you can put any name Okay. So now this data is simply filter or study area. Just uh first of all I simply choose my time period. Suppose I put the filter date. So then you can put your own time period. Suppose on your growing season or a specific crop plant time period or growing season start and growing season end. So simply put the time. Suppose I

just put the time period year of uh um suppose uh 20 25 01 first January then put here suppose year of 2025 uh 06 suppose 30 suppose this is my brain I simply put in here so now let's check how many images are available between this time period simply use that size function and computed how many images are available for our study area. Okay, we find out the 179 images are available between this time period and this data set have a you can see this data set have a different types of band but now we want to work with the

soil moisture. Okay, soil moisture. This band we try to use. Just copy the band name of soil moisture and then just use a select function to select the specific band. Just isolate it. Okay, simply select the band and uh this data set have a different types of null value. Suppose some place there is no data. So this type of data we can also filter. Okay. So how I can filter the null value? So lot of time we check suppose some data set is not available some place there is no pixel or there there is no value for the

specific uh study area. So then we can also filtering the null data okay or null value. So for that if you check I have total 179 images. So from this images I just remove all of null value or all of null pixel. Okay. So for that just create a function. Okay. Suppose I create a function and I put the element name uh img and put the curly bracket start and int. In this curly bracket, my argument is that I want to return I want to return this image I want to put the update marks up max use a condition. Then my

condition is this image not equal not equal and null value we replace - 99999. So it's indicating about the null value we simply replace just put the not equal - 99999. So it means that we remove all of null value from our data set. And now further just click with our study area. Suppose just I click uh with our study area. I put the suppose I simply import a study area. Okay. Let me just simply import just take a agricultural land then it will look more better. For example, I suppose I take this type of length. So

just Just draw this. This is my boundary. Okay, just I put and I take the big steady area because it's a 9,000 m square kilometer. 9,000 m pixel size. Okay, and just I put it's a AOI and I just click with AOI. So now check. Okay. So now this is the function. This function I need to connect with my collection. So this is my collection. So for that we need to use a function. This function called the map function for connecting. Just use the map function and this bracket just keep in the last

bracket in here. So now run the code. So now it's okay. We find out you can see 179 image and all of image we simply um remove all of null pixel value from here. So now uh we just uh create the composite. Yeah please. Yeah, >> I think that function will not work because we didn't composite the the images by media me. >> Yeah. So now we create the composite. Okay. So now we create the composite using the 179 images. So first of all we simply choose our image collection and from this all of images we simply remove

all of null value. All of null pixel will simply remove using this function. So now this just use this 179 images and this create the composite. Okay. So let's try to create that uh take a variable. Suppose I put the S map. I create the median composite to take the all of middle pixel value of soil mer just call the S map and apply the median. Okay. And now I want to add the layer. So I just map dot add layer of this. >> Yeah. So in this case, this is another way. Suppose in this case you can see

this is my function. Okay. So in this function I define all of image. I have total 179 images. This image every image I clip with my study area. Every image. So now in this case when you use this type of function you don't need to use the clip function again in here don't need because I already I already done this step I already clip every single image using this function in my collection total 179 every single image I simply clip with my study area. So that's why if you just ignore this part

and run the code and add the layer then check what happened. Just add the layer and run the code we can get this type of result. You can see it just it just show only for my study area because in this case all of images I have total 179 images. So each image I clip with my study area as well as for every single image I just remove null value. So this clip part I already done in here for every single image. So that's why when I create the medium then not need to put clip again. Okay. Because this step I already done in my

function. Okay. So now we try to add the visualization. Okay. So let me try to add their color code. So they already have some color code. Just I copy and then paste and now from here just I call and paste after the object name and in this case I going to check what is the best range for my study area for soil mer I keep the 98%. So now it automatically showing me the range. So this range I further simply put in my mean and max range value. So it show this type of range. Just take copy this value

and paste here and also copy this value and paste here and run the code. Okay. So you put the layer name. Suppose I put the layer name say soil moisture. Run the code. So now you can see we find out this type of cellar grid. Okay, because this resolution is not is not much good. It shows the 9,000 m resolution. So you find out this type of cell this type of cell. Okay, for this so if you want suppose I want to display it for the big study area suppose I just take I just simply increase. So then we

find out the more smooth map otherwise it show this type of grid or cell because this one cell is total your one 9,000 m okay a very very high pixel size so that the reason we find out this type of result suppose I want to check for this type of study area so now run the code so now it look more but not much better because it's very very high pixel size so when you work with um a small study area for your own suppose for crop plant or agricultural land then we try to use um landset or sentinel two

or central one to make the soil moisture to more better idea about that uh your soil moisture. So now if you check we find out this type of data. So in this data if you check uh the color so for this type of red color indicating about the high soil moisture index we find out this type of place and this type of blue color it's a low soil moisture index. Okay. So high soil moisture index we find out this type of red color. Then blue is the low soil moisture index. And if you want suppose I want to create

a time series chart for a specific soil moisture place suppose I want to check uh for this okay and uh for a specific prop plant or other things. So for that simply click and then open. Suppose I to check it just zoom and find out agriculture land. Suppose I just choose this this this pixel. So I take the new layer and put suppose this is my crop plant area. Okay. So for the prop plan I check take a new geometry of point. So for this point I want to monitor suppose soil moisture for my growing season. Can I

do? So for that just make a time three chart. For that take a variable suppose chart and apply apply suppose UI dot chart dot image dot series. Okay. And put all of argument. So if you simply search this function then we can get all of idea ui dot chart dot image dot series. Okay. So now we try to check all of our comment and put one by one. So first of all image. So in this image image collection okay so we already make the image collection. You can see this is my image collection and in this image

collection I already remove all of okay null pixel value. So I put the image collection. This is my S map. Then I put the comma sign. Then after the image collection you need to put here suppose uh region. Region basically I just define the geometry. I put the point geometry. So this point I simply define in here geometry after that um region then reducer. So I to compute suppose just put here e dot reducer dot first I just take every image first first value. Okay every image first value I just soil moisture first value

for every image. Okay. After the I put here suppose uh we find out the uh scale. Scale is the resolution. So I put the resolution in our satellite data resolution. It's a 9,000 m. And further your system I put here at system time start. Okay. So now this is my chart. I want I want to print this chart. Just print the chart and run the code. Then we can get the soil moisture times recharge for for this for this specific land or crop plant. So now if you check we find out this type of chart. Okay.

So this chart if you check uh for this for this time. So I put this is my growing season. But when you work with one study area then you try to put the uh specific growing season. Okay. So I put the randomly this time period or we can also put suppose uh uh suppose I take the data for one year then then check suppose 2024 to 2025 uh January or false January. Okay. So then we take the data year of 2024. Now let's check. So now you can easil identify more better phological structure. Okay. So now you find out this type of

soil moisture data for one year for this land. Okay. So now if you check this data so you find out this is the top soil moisture. So soil moisture basically uh in the remote sensing it refers to the amount of water. It's a amount of water present in the soil within the root zone or near the land surface. Okay. So we find out this type of value is very high. Okay. In the high soil moisture 0.3 and you can see we find out then it also low low. Okay. You can see again you can see it very low. Okay. Then you can see also

high. Okay. very low and very high we find out and it's a key variable in uh agriculture, hydrarology, climate studies and environmental monitoring because uh it influence the plant growth. Okay. And also water availability, runoff and growth condition everything will be controlled by soil moisture. Okay. Soil moisture is basically it's one kind of data which give you the information amount of water present in the soil within the root zone or near the land surface. Okay. And we can easily measure this type of things

from satellite. It's a satellite data and we can easily identify soil moisture. Okay. We find out this type of soil moisture and volume of soil moisture. It is a meter cube. Okay. Water per volume per soil. It unit is the meter cube. meter cube by me cube and soil we can easily monitor we can easily witness our dryness we can also monitor using the soil moisture if you check we find out this type of red color it's indicating about the high soil moisture value so it means that this type of red color area we find out that

high soil moisture content or this type of place water present is very high the amount of water present is very high for this type of red color pixel okay we find Look for this study area for this time. So this is one kind of data we also use to identify for soil moisture information for a specific land. So you can simply click and then suppose I put the red zone. So it show very high soil moisture content. So now run the code again. Or if you want you can also compare. Suppose I just take some point.

So this is my one I want to compare. And then I take the another geometry and I suppose this is my red zone. I take the another geometry. Suppose this is this is for this type of green zone. So now I just compare the three study area. Suppose I have total three field. So it's one field. This is the another field and this is another field. So now I want to compare the three field soil moisture information for this three field. We can easily make the chart and do it. So for that we create the another

function. So this function called UI chart image by region. Okay. C is by region. So this we need to use in here. So for that just take a variable suppose chart 2 and I call UI chart image series by region. So this is my function to compare I want to compare these three land individual land and uh okay so these three okay sorry we make a mistake in here. So these three things we are just need to take a one geometry. Okay. Okay. Let me just Okay. So I take the new layer. Okay. Suppose geometry four. And this for

suppose this is my one. This is the another field area and this is the suppose another field area or this is the another field. I take the total four field. Okay. So I just put the same geometry. Four point I take for this same geometry and further click on here and put it. It's a feature collection and okay so now I want to use this geometry four because it including total four individual crop plant. So now I want to monitor this four individual crop land soil moisture information. So for that just I use this function.

Okay in this function I define so first of all image collection. Sorry what is that >> s you don't understand how you got it. Okay. So this thing is not need just I remove then you can get suppose in this time you can I take the individual. Okay. But when I when you compare suppose you want to compare the data you want to compare suppose you have different different field and for the different different field when you want to identify soil moisture value. Okay. Then we simply use the same geometry.

Suppose in this time this geometry I store it um different different field in the same geometry. Okay. this one this one it's implemented four points you can see this four point or this four point I simply store it in the geometry form so now I want to identify this four individual individual field I want to identify soil moisture data okay for that I simply storeed all of those in the same you can see it total four geometry or four points in here okay so I simply call the s map this is my data at.

Okay, just uh call this function UI dot chart dot image dot series by region. What is spelling? Let's check. It's a by region. By region. Okay, so just use it. So first I want image collection. Image collection same s map and then paste. Okay. Then second argument you can check uh it's a region. So regions. So my region is the total four four stud area and it started the geometry four. This variable is storeed the total four points. Just I use at the four points. And now after that uh define this

geometry third argument is the reducer. So I put here e dot reducer dot first. I just take the first values for each images and then uh band. So band it's your band name. So in this case my band name is uh soil moisture am. So this is my band name. just I define after that you need to define scale is the resolution so I put the scale is that 9,000 m then we define X property X property we can put here suppose system start yeah system time start and you can also define the series property. I put the default suppose

series property basically it started the crop name suppose this is the rice this is the sugar can this is so level level of the total four uh points so now just print the chart and then check what happen just print the chart two and run the code run the Okay. So you can see we can get this type of things total four crop plant. We find out this type of chart. This is my specific one crop plant. This is the another crop plant. This is the another crop plant. This is the another prop plant. Okay. So in this time I don't

mention any kinds of name. But if you want suppose you know you already know. Suppose zero is the rice. You already know one this point is for suppose sugar can this is for the joot and this is the suppose another crop. So now we can easily compare suppose this cor plant how much soil moisture we find out in the January 25 and this corop plant how much find out the soil moisture in January 28 okay suppose you can say we find out that June 3 it's very high so this crop plant suppose this is the rice

suppose for the rice we find out that high soil moisture value for this time and you can find the low this type of low three so we can easily compare for the different crops soil moisture data we can easily compare by using this way. Suppose you have a point. So this type of point in uh indicating different types of different types of crop plant. Okay. So now we can simply use this type of technique not only for this any kinds of uh data set just apply the same process and identify different difference different place where the

time chart we find out and then finally we compare the soil moisture. So it's one kind of technique to identify for the soil moisture >> possible to remove. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. It's called the series property. Series property. You can see we have another series property. >> So in the series property you can simply define you can check the by region we find out the last in the series property. So in the series property we can simply define then it will be work. Suppose series property you can see it's

the spring. So property of feature. Okay. or default system index. We can system index. Basically in this time we are not put any kinds of level. Suppose if you check we can also put here the series property. Okay. Property of feature in region to use the series level. Okay. Default it's the system index. Index basically it will be start from the zero then one then two and three. But if you want you can also put the series property. Suppose I just add some series property. Default I simply show you that suppose

just I add the series property as a dictionary. So I put first suppose it's a rice. I put the random. Okay. Suppose rice. >> Yes. >> Suppose this is the uh sugar can suppose J then suppose barley. So now let's check Uh okay. Show problem element property validated actual type. Okay. Okay, we need to set the property. >> Yes, we need to set it when we are defining. >> Yeah. >> Yes, I understand. >> So suppose when you define >> Yes. >> Then we need to put the property name.

>> Yes. In the marker. >> Yes. So you can see in this time you can see it show the ID is the zero. Okay. Also you can see ID is the one. So that's why I show the 0 1 then two okay and three but when you put the marker just simply put the ID then I hope it will work no problem so try I hope you can easily get the idea how we can easily do it for that get the series property but this is the process we can easily do using to make this type of comparison for the different types of prop plant okay not

only for the soil moisture any data NDVI or Anything suppose you want to this is the sugar can this is the suppose rice this is the suppose others then we can easily compare the more uh crop plant in our one chart then we can easily identify which water need the more soil more share who crop plant is more better growth so this type of information you can easily generate from here okay so now we talk about that another data so this data set okay so I'll show you the example suppose I want to identify

soil bare soil. Okay. So suppose I want to identify bare soil and what is the bare soil? Bare soil uh it's indicating about the low NDVI value. low NDVI value for the bare soil and and we find out the S SIR basically this is the one kind of band reflectance we find out that moderate moderate SIR this band reflectance reflectance okay reflectance for spare cell so let's go try to identify using this condition so for this study area we want to identify for the bare cell bare cell basically low

NVI and moderate sir reflectance value. So for that we create a suppose I create a function. Okay just I create a function I put the function variable name suppose um bare max or identify for beand or bare max I put the bare max. So then create a function keyword element name suppose img and now put my argument. So what is my argument? So my argument is that I want to compute NDVI and also uh choose the low ND NDVI and also moderate U SIR reflectance. Okay, which indicating about the B soil. So for this region I

take a variable suppose NDVI and I compute the NDVI using this element. I put here suppose normalized normalized normalized difference normalized difference. Let me increase my zoom. Yeah. Normalized difference. Normalized difference between two band. First band is for near. Second band is for rate. Okay. And now I rename it uh rename it as a NDVI. Okay. So I calculate the NDVI. And now what is the bar? I take a variable suppose bare soil or bear this NDVI I take the low ND NDVI so I put here suppose less than I choose 0.25

okay so I choose the low NVI value 0.25 25 and >> 0.1 >> I can also put the no problem to one no problem okay so low end indicating this type of P we can put there is no problem so I put the lowend NDVI value and then I put here suppose and I and another condition I choose this I select this band select the band of S wir SWIR and I take that moderate moderate reflectance. So moderate reflectance basically greater than uh 0.1. It's called the moderate reflectance for this type of band. So I put here suppose

greater than greater than uh 0.1. So I create this type of condition. You also change that this type of value. There is no problem. So now I find out this I can compute the NDVI and also use this type of things. And now I what I return. So I want to return return this image will be update. So put the update marks update max using this condition using this condition. Okay. So now we create this function. Now this function I want to connect with my uh image collection. Okay. So let's now we try to

identify for image collection. So for the image collection we just need to import a image collection. Okay. Suppose just I I just write the code in here. So I create a variable I I put the variable name suppose S2 and call the sentinel to surface deflect. I use this sentinel 2 because it's more high resolution. I call sentinel or simply find out from here sentinel to multisspectral I choose and identify surface reflectance. Okay. And this image if you check okay it says one kind of scale. Okay. So this

image color I simply copy and paste here and also define filter bounds for intersecting with my study area which is a yi a oi then put the filter date. So I take the data suppose for suppose I take this type of data 20 24 I take suppose say 2025 so now it take the data one year 2024 to 20 January December take the data one year data just I define the year it also work there is no problem and uh further this is my image collection okay so in this image collection you can see I don't filter the cloud level. Okay. So

when you not filtering the cloud level then you need to apply the cloud max function. Okay. So in this case you can also apply suppose filter filter date filter date and apply suppose uh cloud pixel person less than less than one just apply the filter metadata. Okay suppose filter metadata and further you can also filtering the cloud level. Okay. But when you use it the cloud level then it we don't find out the uh crop crop information because suppose some time uh less than one person is not available

monitor the crop land or identify for agricultural production or or soil mod or anything then don't use the filter metadata okay but when I don't use the filter data then we find out some cloud so for that we create a cloud mark function okay to remove all of cloud and get the vinity can clean satellite imagery. So for that just take a variable suppose I put the variable name is that uh s2 s2 cloud max okay put this type of variable equal I put here suppose function and element name suppose image and put

the curly bracket in this curly bracket I define my argument so what is my argument just cloud filtering okay so it's very easy just take a variable okay we already discussed about this type of cloud mark function in our 7 as volunteering program. You can get the idea from here. So I put here suppose image and select the band name uh this band QA 60. So put here QA 60. Okay. And then I take the two bit suppose I take a variable suppose suppose I put the variable name is the cloud and call the QA it connecting. So put

the bit wise end function for connecting with the band. So bit wise and I put the one less than less than 10. So it's one kind of bit number and I set not equal zero. And also put here the or QA bit wise and bit wise and I put one less than less than 11. So this is the another bit number and I set not equal zero. Okay. After that we simply return. Okay. Suppose just I put here I want to return this image will be update max. So put here the update max function. Update max cloud do not. Okay. So now all of cloud will

be removed. Just put the not function from here. And now divide divide or you can also put the multiply multiply multiply with this value. This value basically our scale value 0.001. So this the scale value just copy and use it. Okay. Okay. So now uh in this case you can see here in my function I also create another function near and red. So I create this type of band name but what is the actual band name in my satellite image. If you check it's the B1, B2, B3. Okay. So now this type of band name I need to rename.

Suppose B2 I rename blue. B3 I rename green. B4 I rename red. B5 I rename suppose red. So I just I rename this type of band name. So how I can rename it? So let's try to show you that. So for that just I use the code in here. Just put here um dot select. Oh no after return after return and multiply this function. Put here the dot select I select I just make a list. Suppose I select the B2 band then uh B3 then suppose D4. Okay. Okay. Then put here B8 and put suppose B 11 and B 12. Okay. So now I rename it. So for the rename is

very easy. Just put the comma sign and apply the another square bracket and put B2 I put it's a it's a blue band. Okay. Then put here B3 I put it's a green band. Then uh B4 is a red band. Then I put here um B8 it's a near infrared band. And B1 is the short web infrared one band and B12 uh short web infrared two band. Okay. Just I define. So now it just uh select this band and also rename this type of name. Okay. So after that I simply use a copy properties. So copy properties from this image and also apply image dot

property property names. Okay. So this is the function. This function basically help you to remove the cloud as well as also help you to rescaling your scale factor as well as also rename this type of band. So this function simply connect with your image collection. So this is my image collection. So I simply connect using the map function. Just call the function variable name which is S2 cloud max. Just copy and paste here. Okay. So now it's connecting all of images this type of if you check suppose just print

and check suppose S2 run the code. So image collection computed. So now you can check all of image we find out the new name blue, green, red this type of name. Find out you can check just it working. Okay. So if you check just click on here. So if you check the features total 969 m we find out for this one year. Okay. And if you check the each image have this type of band blue green red. Okay. So just I rename it already I rename it this type of name. So that's why it look like this type of name and

all of image is already remove the cloud and h because I already apply the cloud marks function in my code. Okay. So now you find out this type of things and I already define the bear plant okay using this condition. So now this this function I need to connect with my this collection okay S2 collection. So for that you can easily connect using this function. So just take a variable suppose I put a variable name is take a variable I put the variable name suppose bear soil composite equal I call the this s2 because it is

stored all of images just copy and also define in here um I call the map function and call this function variable name baremax just copy and paste. Okay. And further I create the median composite. Median composite and clip with my study area suppose a yi. So now try to check the result suppose a variable map dot add layer and we create the bare soil composite. Just copy and paste. And in this composer yeah please in functionality between those that update mask function and self mask. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. So up update marks and

selfm marks is the update marks basically in this time suppose I have a I I create this function and in this function I set a condition. Okay. So this condition I want to update. Okay. So then we try to apply the update max function. Suppose I have you create a condition. Suppose in this time this is my condition. So this condition I want to update. So then put the update max function. And when you need the selfmax function selfmax function we apply um when you want to just apply the remove the remove the suppose um binary

class binary class binary class. Okay. Suppose I just have a two class zero and one but I will remove the zero just keep only for the one class then apply the self marks okay but suppose when you apply the condition suppose this is my condition this condition I want to apply and update my image so just put the image and update marks then it will be work easily okay for the update any condition okay so now I just simply uh add the layer of composite okay and uh just I run the port. Let me check what's the problem.

Okay. Okay. So, Sier Sier one. It will be S1 because we put the name as the one. Okay. Now if you just add the layer suppose I put the layer siger then put here the near and also put here red stressing was 98% Okay. And apply. So now if you check we find out this type of composite Okay. So now you find out this type of place have the your basically it's a it's a crop plan we find out. Okay. So this type of place and this type of place we find out it's a parland. Okay. We can easily identify this type

of place. We find out that crop land or agriculture or vegetation. Okay. But others this type of things it show about that your it's a barrel and we find out or without without uh prop we find out this type of things for this place. Let me just import this visualization. Just copy And it's called the soil brightness or bad soil comp uh composite soil compost. Okay. So now we talk about that uh soil salinity how we can easily compute the soil salinity. So for the soil salinity we need to

apply the different types of index. If you simply search here suppose soil the index English source. So there are the lot of formula you find out for the soil salinity index if you check and you can see this uh also you can see that this salinity index this it's one kind of formula and this is the reference about that or brightness index. So we also discuss about the brightness index about that after some time and normalized difference uh solenity index NDSI okay vegetation soil solenity index you can see V SSI so

different types of soil moisture we are used for the different purpose suppose um you can also read this paper they'll get a lot of idea about that how we can easily apply the different types of formula suppose salinity index brightness index normal difference salinity index vitation soil salinity index or normalized difference vegetation index or soil you learn about these type of things and you can see for that they're also uh use the EC data EC data to compare and make the classification you can see the

non-salign salinity line moderately line okay and make this type of class also check the result you can see salenity index result and also ground to data result that is combined and make the regression analysis basically identify linear regression R value to compare the result. Okay. So you can see then they make this type of so this type of place non-senity then this type of place moderate salinity then slightly salinity this type of color. Okay. And this is the R square value. So one thing is need

when you work with salenity mapping for your study area and we need the ground root EC data. Okay ground EC data we need to measure okay for the specific coordinate. So further simply just compare these two data ground data and also satellite data and create this type of map. Okay. For the salenity map we also create but we can also help of index. Help of index we can identify which place is more high concentration of the salenity. This information we also get this type of index we are using suppose salenity index or brightness

index normal difference salenity index. So this type of index we are using and identifying. Okay. So let's go try to apply a formula and identify for soil salenity modeling and mapping using remote sensing and GS technique. This basically they apply the sugar can area irrigation farm. So read the paper then you will get a lot of idea. >> If that paper will help me I I I'm writing an article about sugar can prediction. Yes. Yes. Yes. So you can see there also compute the regression

coefficient value. Okay. But for that we need the measured EC data and create this type of mapping. So let's go try to apply. soil. So I need index. So one formula of the soil salinity index basically ND dsi equal we can write suppose the band s wir1 minus n i then divided by s wir 1 plus n or you can put any formula for the different types of formula is available. So I want to compute it and identify for soil serenity. So for that it's very easy. Just take a variable. I put the variable suppose NDSI

NDSI suppose salt and you can see here I already make the uh bare soil composite. Okay. Because in the soil salinity I want to monitor for the bare land. Okay, where have the low vegetation and it's not uh affected my result otherwise if I just apply it for the vegetation you can see we have also another index is for the vegetation soil index okay so this index help you to identify for the soil salinity in the vegetation area but in this time I to apply the normalized different salenity index so for that we first of all we

simply separate the bare composite bare soil composite is simply separate bare land okay we find out this type of place is the bear and this type of as we find out the vegetation or pro plan others. So this is the way we simply identify bare soil. So that's why I simply put the bare marks function and also connect with my satellite image and create the bare soil composite. So now when I compute the salenity soil salenity for the sal just call the bare soil composite and apply this formula ndsi

formula. So just put here uh normalized normalized difference between S WR1 S Wir and near infrared. So NIR just I put it and I rename it rename it as a suppose salinity salinity index salinity index. So now we try to add just uh map dot add layer and call the nd si sword and run the code. Let me take the small study area for it very quickly get the result just I take only for this. So this is my this is my program. I simply choose it. Yeah, I put it this type of ice. I put the randomly. Okay. Get the rest. So now run the code very

quickly. You can get the other take some lot of time. Yeah. Okay, now we try to add the color for the salinity index. Just historicing I keep the 98%. And I put suppose low salinity problem sometimes for me. I don't know why. >> So click on let me check again. So I think some problem or networking issue then this code is not work properly. Yeah. So I want to add the color man. Uh just a minute let me add the color randomly. Just take a variable suppose p is this trying to add suppose mean

and max and make the color plated suppose it show the green color for the low salinity better than yellow color and high salinity the red color. I put this type of color and this min max value I simply take from here just copy this value and paste here mean copy and paste at the max. So now for that just copy the visualization parameter and add in your object and put the layer name suppose. So now run the code. So now you find out you can see this type of things. Okay. So this type of red indicating about the

high salenity index and green is the low salenity index you find out in here and this type of >> yeah soy salt soy salt >> yes high concentration of salt which one >> high serenity serenity means the soil has high concentration of salts >> yes yes Yes. Yes. Yes. high concentration of the salt or saline 80 this type of we find out okay you can also check the value suppose just click on here and it's a index but when you apply the regression with your EC data just use this type of paper then we can

easily identify we can easily make the classification okay there you can see we can easily calculate the non-solinity salinity or salinity but for that we need the easy data but we can we can easily identify using the Remote sensing index you can see different types of index we are used to identify for soil conc uh salenity concentration right suppose high positive indicating with the high concentration low uh salenity value indicating about the low concentration so these type of things we can easily find out from here okay in

this paper basically they're using landm for the different time then you can see salenity and vegetation index generation using this type of things okay and further they also take the collect the data from primary data, EC data and pre-process the data correlation then model generation then soil sanity change analysis and predicted the soil map there also create okay using the machine learning I hope yeah and there you can see it's one kind of practice for the making the research paper also you also

try to identify for any study area then it's also best practice to make the publishing the scientific paper for the salinity modeling soil salinity modeling help of EC data Yeah, >> you will send me to that paper. >> Okay, no problem. It's same. No problem. So after the serenity, we can also identify for soil brightness. Okay. Soil brightness uh we can also apply the different types of things. So let me try to apply the compute the soil brightness. A soil brightness basically it refers to

the how reflective the soil surface appears in the satellite or aerial imagery. Okay. Or brightness is also related to the alvo reflectance of the soil surface and bright soil reflect the more light and appear the lighter in satellite images while darker soil absorb the more light and appear the darker. Okay. Suppose brightness soil is reflect the more light and appear the and while the darker soil darker soil the soil absorb the more light and appear the darker. Okay. And we can find out the factor affecting

suppose lot of factor is affecting by soil brightness such as soil uh I'll slide the factor name you can also study later. Suppose one factor for soil moisture. Okay. Soil moisture is also um influenced by brightness. Okay. Weight I put the example suppose weight soils weight soils absorb absorb more radiation more radiation more radiation weight soil. Okay. More radiation or lower brightness. We find out in here we find out the lower brightness. lower brightness brightness for that. So second factor suppose we can say that

organic matter so organic matter organic matter. So organic matter what happened for that higher organic matter higher organic matter suppose higher organic matter it look like uh your darker soil. Okay, darker soil. So if we find out the darker soil, it means that this soil have a higher organic matter. Okay, and we find out that in the darker soil we find out that lower brightness, lower brightness. So you can see using the brightness we find out the lot of factor for the soil. Okay. So I'll write this type of thing

also. So organic matter basically we find out the higher organic matter we find out the darker soil and darker soil lower brightness value we find out lower brightness value we find out. Okay. Second argument suppose it can be uh your soil texture. Soil texture. For the soil texture what happen? For the soil texture um sandy soil suppose sandy is one kind of soil. Sandy soil is one kind of type of soil. Sandy soils are we find out are generally brightness. Okay. Generally generally brightness sandy soil okay generally brightness

generally um brightness then kill soil soil. So we can also identify this type of soil texture based on the soil brightness. Okay. Send uh suppose another factor we can say that salinity for the salinity what happened soil salinity what happened so saline soil open appear brighter okay so saline soil or salenity soil we find out it's appear appear brighter brighter due to the salt crust. Okay, due to the salt crust, we find out it's better due to the salt crust. So, this is another factor which

influenced by soil brightness. Finally, we also saw that another important thing. It's called the surface runup run surface roughness. Surface roughness. Surface roughness. So how? So a smooth surface reflect more light. Okay. A smooth surface. A smooth surface. A smooth surface. Uh it reflect reflect more light. more light uniformly uniformly. So you can see based on the soil brightness we can this type of matter soil moisture organic matter soil texture salenity or surface roughness is different on the soil brightness. So

from the soil brightness we can easily identify different types of things. Suppose you can see soil moisture wet soil absorb the more radiation. So that's why you find out the lower brightness. Okay. So for the soil moisture wet soil it show the lower brightness value. Suppose I find out the lower brightness value. It means that it weight soil it weight soil. Okay. And wet soil have a high soil moisture value. Okay. Because soil moisture is is the content of water in the soil. organic matter. You can see for the

organic matter what happened higher organic matter it loop the darker soil. Suppose I find out this place have a darker soil. Darker soil mainly lower brightness. Okay. And this darker soil have the higher organic matter. Okay. Same suppose soil texture sandy soil are generally brightness than soil. We can easily identify it show the more brightness. So is it sandy soil and kum soil is the darker. Then salenity salenity soil appear the brighter due to the salt crust. Okay. And finally surface roughness we find out the smooth

surface reflect more light uniformly. So now we compute the soil brightness. How we can compare discuss about that. So for that the part that I just call take a variable suppose I put the variable name is that it's called the normalized difference brightness or let me check for the formula. NB R2 N B N B R 2 index simply search suppose index normal difference burn ratio we identify NBR2. So burn ratio we try to identify okay which is the more burn more burn more reflectance value. So we try to

apply this formula if you check the formula for that I think some issue take some time. Okay, you can see this is the formula about the NBR2. So this NBR2 basically S SR1 minus S SR2 divided by S S1 plus S SR2. So this is the formula. So let's say we try to apply this formula NB R2. So just I call the B soil composite. I already make the composite. In this composite I simply computed this formula. So just paste here and apply normalized difference normalized difference normalized difference S wir 2 and

S wir 1 okay and I rename it dot rename S wos NB R2 Okay. So now let's try to apply this that the layer map dot add layer and call this just copy and run the [Music] I put uh this top color for the lower soil. What can I put here? That's definitely So you can easily find out now this type of place. Okay, you can check and just simply compare with the color. So you find out this type of place have the lower value of soil brightness. We find out this type of place. Okay, and this type of green color we find out that

it's higher. Okay. So now we can simply compare the different types of factor you can see soil moisture, organic matter, soil texture, salenity and surface roughness. We can just compare with the high and low value about that. Okay. Or if you want you can also apply the composite also. Suppose uh for the soil brightness simple uh albido is also applied. Suppose just take a variable. I take a variable suppose bright. In this variable I just store it the call the bright this bad soil composer I just call

and then I just uh select this type of bands. So this band basically for blue band then green band then I put here suppose red band then SIR1 then S wir2 okay so I put all of those and now this type of from this band all of bands I simply reduce how I can reduce I just apply the E dot reducer dot mean I compute the mean average value average pixel look for eastbands and I rename it rename it as a bright okay or soil brightness or soil bright. So it's one kind of way we also try to check it just map layer and call the

bright and run the So we can set the color suppose I want to just stress 98% G and add the suppose I just put the darker soil I put this type of darker Then put here this is the this type of color this type of color and also put those this type of bright side I put this type of white color or this type of color So now if you check you find out this type of result. Okay. So this type of color indicating about the darker soil. Okay. and white is indicating about the brighter soil reflector I find out from

here. Okay. Let me check suppose stressing level we can then check you can see find out dark brown card. So this type of dark card it it's a bright bright cell this type of white color. Okay. And if you compare the result with the NBR2, you can see we find out the almost similar result. Basically, this type of color indicating about the darker soil. This type of place. And if you compare with your this u soil bright layer, we find out you can see almost similar. Okay. Almost similarly find out

in here. And you can see this type of green color. It's indicating about that your brighter soil. So further just compare with that. We find out the white color. You can see this type of white color we find out in here. This type of white collection in here and from here you can easily identify because soil brightness it's influence lot of factor lot of factor we find out in here you can see soil mature organic matter soil texture salenity and surface roughness we can relate it with this type of soil

pride. So now for that just uh import import and then copy and then paste and put the it's I put it's a soil brightness so I hope you can get the idea about that how we can easily monitor these type of things okay for soil brightness and the soil salinity or bare cell composite how we can create okay bare cell composite basically lower NDVI value and moderate reflectance below the SI we just apply this technique and identify what the B cell composite and then create this type of things okay

so now visualize the interpret the layers the aronomic decision we can take different types of decision where is the higher nutrient where is the lower nutrient Okay. As well as where is the high soil moisture, where is the low soil moisture. based on the soil brightness or salenity or NBR2 we can easily get these type of things. So now it just show the example about the code and data set. We are just using the soil moisture. Okay. And max field value you can see we already use the minus 9999 to remove all of those.

And we use this type of sentinel two processing. Okay. Cloud marks we are use this band Q60 and surface reflectance we multiply 0.001. Okay. And we rename this type of band. Okay. Just I put this type of things also. And further for the bare soil composite we are just put this type of logic suppose NDV compute and then bare marks we are just use this type of technique to identify for the bare max and apply max per images. Okay create the mirror composite to reduce the noise and further display the mineral or soil

contrast composition. Okay, SW right just show the visualization and then soil health you can see for the soil health we are just compute the soil salinity okay salinity risk indicator we just use this formula and also clay or moisture thermal we are just use NBR2 okay and soil brightness we are simply calculate the average value all of pixel okay further for the validation we just use the ground root data basically EC data or texture data or soil organic carbon data okay before the decision we

check this type of ground truth data and make the decision. So this is the visualization and this is the code I will say add in here it's not need I send all of code link. So put on the link and easily get the code no problem. So now okay so I'll okay we already discuss about that NDCI validation yeah okay so now you talk about that uh optional extension single one RWI Hey, Okay. So now we talk about this type of topic. Okay. Water balance. How we can monitor for the water balance, monthly

precipitation and water respiration and water balance. Suppose a specific duration of time. Okay. for the monthly precipitation or evapo transpiration or water balance for a specific time range. So first of all simply select our study area. Okay. Then put the time period and we just temporal aggregation monthly sum created from the source image collection. Okay. So you can put any satellite image to take the uh preciperation data. In this time we just use this data. You can see the charts planted data. Okay. And precipation per

5 day we find out from here. And we also use the for ET data we take the mod data. Okay. And we compute the monthly total sum ped and also 8 day evaport transpiration within the east month we compute it. Okay. And then we just identify for the water balance concept. You can say this is the monthly water balance simplified. We just use this formula P minus ET. Okay. Interpretation. So let's I practical example then I'll explain the theory. So let me open the code editor. So first of all simply choose a study or

group plan area. Suppose Yes. This is my study area. This is my study area. Okay. So just I put the name R Y. So now I simply work with first data. So first of all I simply define the time period. Suppose take a variable start year. Suppose I to identify water balance between this time period from 2010 to take the end year end year 2020. Okay. So now we create the take a variable suppose start date and define the date e dot date uh dot from year Monday and define the date. Just call the start here

and I put suppose first January first date. Take another variable suppose in date. So e dot date from year month day ymd and define the indent. This end date we simply put at the plus one and one and also one I put in here. So I define the start date and end date and also make the year sequence. Just take a variable suppose years and I put e dot list dot sequence put here start year. I just make the sequence of year and in year. Okay. So define the start year and in year and also make the list of month.

Suppose I take the variable months and make the list e dot list sequence put the 1 to 12 mean basically January to December we put the 12th month what is here. So this is our first step. We simply define our time period. So now simply import the uh import your image or image collection or data set. We are just use the one data charts. It's a precipitation data. We find out daily and pentat. So this data set we try to use to get the monthly precipitation data. Okay. This data set basically we show the

result is the one custom time unit we find out the data millimeter five five days okay inter is the five days for this data. Just copy this data and take a variable. Put the variable name suppose charts equals. So now simply filter dot filter date the field simply define the start date and end date. So I already define you can see start date I define the end date. Okay. So just I simply put the start date and end date. So now what my argument? My argument is that I want to compute it monthly precipitation. Okay.

Suppose each month total precipitation I want to compute. Okay. So this is my data set. We find out if you check how many image we find out. Just print the charts. Okay. So, here's the problem. number. Oh, sorry it's a India. Okay, we find the 792 image collection. So now we try to uh create the monthly total precipitation. Okay, so let's go to take a variable. I put the variable name suppose uh monthly precipitation. Okay. So in the monthly precipitation I have a total 792 image collection. Okay.

So this 7 792 image collection I to create the monthly image collection. Okay. Monthly total image collection I need to create. So for that we just use a function. This function called e dot image collection from images. A dot image. Yeah. Image image collection dot. Yeah. So this function. Yeah. So a dot image collection from images. So I have a image collection. So this image collection I convert into other image collection. So that >> we are just applying this e do image collection from images this function.

Okay. Suppose I have a 792 image collection. So this image collection I convert into monthly image collection for each year I have a total 10 years data 202 10 to 2020. So for each year I need to calculate monthly total precipitation for my study area. So just I use this function e image collection from images and then and put here suppose just create a function suppose I create a function function okay I put the aluminum suppose y for year so in this function we filter we filter our image collection Okay. And uh Okay.

So, and I want to filter yearly and monthly at the same time. Okay. So, for that we define return return um months. I already defined the months. You can see I already define the months. Okay. Months. So, return this months. it connecting with our function map and put the function keyword again. Okay. And then put the element name m and put our argument in here. So in this case uh I create a function I create the two function first function for year. Okay. So this year function it's come from this years. So we need to connect

it just I copy and connect with my function. So map I just define again and also close. Okay. So now you can see I create the two function. So first function years. So I take the EC year suppose EC year basically 2010 to 2020 I take the ER and also take the EC year 12 month okay 12 month so for that I just create the E dot image collection from images and then I take the years okay this function I connect with monthly okay monthly two time I just use the function so now we try to filter so for filter filtering

take a variable suppose I put the variable name is W you can put in name W and call our data set this data set total 792 image data set it is stored in this variable just like copy and paste here so this data set I want to filter so just put here the filter and in this case I want to filter using the calendar range so put here E dot filter dot Blender. Rinse. >> Capital C. >> Yeah. Say it. Okay. Calendar R. Calendar R. So in the calendar R first time we filter yearly. So put here Y.

It's our element name y and unit is year. So first time we filter for yearly and second time we also filter for monthly. Okay. So for that put the filter again. I want to filter art engine dot filter dot calendar. Now we filter monthly. So put here monthly mm and put the unit is the month. Okay. So now we put the filter monthly yearly is year is month. Okay. Suppose 1 year 12 month. Okay. So now we calculate the total precipitation just put here the dot sum. So now this is my argument I have

written. I calculate the total sum. So I again explain this code again. So if you check first of all I have total 792 image collection for this time period 2010 to 2020. Okay. So now this 2010 to 2020 I compute the monthly precipitation for each month for each year suppose 2010 total 12 month then 2011 total 12 months 201 up to 2020 all of year have a total 12 month. So for that I create this function e.ms collection and first time I connect with years. Okay. So this is my function for years and from this

years what I return I return for each year 12 month. For each year 12 month I return. So this is my argument. So for that I simply return months and its month including total 12 months 1 to 12 and I want to uh function month. So now after creating the two function so I filtered this image collection. First time I filter yearly. Okay. Second time I filter monthly. It means that suppose year 2010 January year 2010 February year 2010 is month. Okay. This month we just generate the total precipitation.

Okay. So now yeah please. Is it possible to filter even those rainfall per day? >> Which one don't understand? >> We have fed the total precipitation per month and per year. Is it? >> Yes. Yes. Suppose month is is year or of month. >> Yes. Now I'm asking is it possible to filter again from those months per some of the precipitation per day because the charts data provides precipitation data per day is it possible also to filter per day from those month. >> So if you want you can also put the

seasonal that is no problem then simply put the season time suppose you can say I take the January to December. So you can put here suppose um March to uh May or any specific time you can put any specific uh season you can also change the time in here okay then it will be work no problem same code >> but in this take the one year January December okay so now what I return so let's go ahead return so after sum we just simply Done. So put here return return this w set set with first time

year and put the y. Then set with again set with month and put the m. Okay. And we can also apply suppose uh dot set system time start and define e dot dead from ymd. So just define the format e dot from YM. Okay. And now put suppose year then month and date suppose first it show the this type of things and so now this is the function we define in here. Okay. And now in this function we just simply uh create the monthly composite. Now let's try to print and check what happen. Let's print and mar

precipitation to check the result run the so we face a problem it show the what is the problem image collection precipitation unknown bands Okay. >> Oh sir. >> Yeah. >> We did we didn't select precipitation. >> Okay. Let me check for that we >> from the data set. >> Let me try to you see >> select. Okay. Okay, we try to apply the another function. It's called plottin. Now let's check. [Music] Yeah. So now it's working. So flatten function basically it convert the list

suppose you can see it's convert the nested list into flat list okay just we define the flatten so now if you check the result it total 132 okay and we find out the you can see every bands have a one band and this band name is the precipitation and we find out you can see the month one mainly January year 2010 so now we can check we find out that this month we find out that for year 2010 February so then check you can see this is the March so all of we create all of yearly you can check finally last one is that we find the

2020 December so now it's convert the is monthly monthly data set you can find out in here okay so now this is my collection which simply uh add this collection uh or if you want you can also display the result just add the map lay out okay and also displays the result or if you want you can also make the times return so we try to put the time chart suppose then then display the monthly annual times chart so take a variable suppose chart monthly so just put here UI dot chart dot image dot series

by region. Okay, by region and put all of argument. First argument is image collection. So we already make the monthly precipitation. Okay just I put then second argument is study area which is I put the name ROI. So put here R Y second argument I compute suppose E dot reducer dot mean average and then put band name band name basically precipitation precipitation it's a band name then scale is the 5,000 m And we have to put here X property. X property basically system time start system time.

Okay. And further uh if you want you can also put here suppose just use here set name. I put set series names set series names. Okay, I put the name suppose P for precipitation. I put series name. Okay. And then we also put the set chart type. I create suppose column chart. It look better for the precipitation monthly precipation. Put the ch set chart type and put the type is column chart. column chart. Okay. So now print the chart and see what happen. Just print chart monthly and run the C. Okay.

C is the park I think. Yes. C. No. Yes. So now you find out you can see for each month precipitation. Okay. So you can see this is the month January. Okay. So you can get the it month precipitation from 2010 to 2020. You can also add the chart title or evaluate. You can also try later same process. So now we just create this type of things for the precipitation. So after creating the precipitation then we need to calculate the evapable transpiration because we want to calculate the water balance for monthly

water balance we need to compute. Okay. So for the two things we need first we need the precipitation data monthly precipitation we need. Okay. And then we need the ET data. ET mainly IBO transpiration data. Evapo transpiration data. So this data we can get from modis. So we can simply call the modis to compute the evapo transpiration. So I simply search here bodies transpiration. I think this data run it exploration. This data it's 8 day. It's net net transpiration from 2,000. Yeah. mode is global. Terrestrial

It's equal equal transpiration. So we try to use it. Okay. Just copy and band name is ET. We also have STL 0.01. Okay. So just we try to use it because it's available from 200 to 2024. Yeah. But we need the past time data. Okay. 2014 only. We can use it that >> type of transpiration I think this data let me check in 2002 what is the time period and this band name is also 80 total respiration 0.1 same scale I think this data set let me check yeah it also okay so we try to use it and it also high 500 m only just copy

and paste paste. Okay. And then give a variable name. I will put the name is that 4. Okay, Eva. Then we can just simply put here the dot select and select the band name. Band name is ET. So now for the filter date or filter date and put here start date and we already define the start date and date. So start date and also put that in date. Okay. So just we already define you can see start date and end date. Okay. Just put the start and end. So now um this things we also apply we just use the same code. Okay. Suppose now not need to

write again. So just I copy the same all of code because we just apply the same process again to create the monthly bubble transpiration value for each month for each year just paste here. Okay. So now this is my image collection. So I put here suppose this monthly you can put any name. Okay. And now this is my years, this is my month and this is my data set just I paste in here and I computed the total evapo transpiration. Okay, some total sum for each month and this data set have a scale. Okay, this scale

we simply use in here just multiply scale is the 0.1 just I use the scale also in here and others just keep the same okay so now we just display the monthly buffer result just copy and paste and also make the time chart okay and scale is only for 500 I think 500 is 500 and also put here the band name is 80 just put the band name is 80 it is the band name transformation band name I put the 80 and also put here the series name I put here so it's a 80 or 80 others keep the same there is no problem just run the code so now let's

see what happened so now yeah it computed the total e portionation for Eastman timely chart. >> Done. >> Yes, please. >> It is done. >> Yeah, it is done. You can find you can see. So this is the precipitation for monthly is year and this is the evapo transpiration monthly for this year is month we find out. So now I have ET data I have also precipation data. So now I can easily comput it the water balance. Okay. So basically what is the water balance? Okay. So now let's check the some

theorical part. I will show you that from my slide. Sorry is the slide. Yeah. So water balance basically WB equal precipitation precipitation minus Eubo transpiration. So it's called the water balance. This is the water balance equation and interpretation water balance greater than zero. Suppose this value if the greater than zero it means that runoff potential or recharge recharge and if the value less than zero then we find out the deficit or irrigation need. Suppose some place I find out WB is

negative, water balance is negative. It means that this type of plant or this type of prop plant you need the irrigation. Okay. And suppose where I find out that water balance greater than zero value mainly positive value where I find it means that there's a lot of water research or runoff potential this type of place don't need any kinds of irrigation but if I get the value water balance is negative water balance value is less than zero it means that you need the irrigation irrigation need or

deficit of Okay. So in this time ignore the soil mercy storage run up. So in this time you can see we simply ignore this type of uh things. Okay. Just we talk about only for that water balance based on the precipitation and even respiration but also water balance is also different. Some other factor suppose soil moisture runoff deep precolation or cap capillary rise. Okay. So in this time we are just use the water balance screening the indicator field variation is recommended. Okay. So when you just take

the scenario in your imagery but when you take the decision you simply feel very v validation recommendation unit. So let's go try to compute water balance and check the water balance value for each month. Then we can easily get the identify this month I find out the negative value. It means that this month I need to irrigation. Suppose this month I find out the very high value of water balance. It means that you don't need the irrigation this month. Okay. So let's go try to compute

the water balance. I hope you can get the idea. Okay. So now I want to compute the water balance for this month. This month water balance I compute. So take a variable water balance. Take a variable suppose WB equal. So in this case we say apply the water balance. Okay. Okay, this we try to apply suppose uh e dot image collection from images. Okay. And we computed two things suppose yearly and monthly. So monthly water balance we compute for the monthly uh we create a function for first time for year. So function this

function for year about the year and then what is my argument for is year for is month. So I want to return month it is connected to the function. I put the element name uh M and what is my argument? My argument is and these things this month I can with my years. So just put here the years dot map close the bracket and also close the bracket. Okay. So now we can see this is my years. This is my month. I already defined the month and years. Okay. So now we I create uh years map and return this month map function.

Okay. So now what is my argument? So my first argument I take a variable. I compute the P mainly precipitation I compute. So P this P I computed from the charts. So just I call the charts charts and I filter. So just put here the filter. How I can filter? Art engine filter dot calendar range. Calendar range. First time we filter yearly. So year unit is year. Okay. And second time we filter monthly. So put here the filter monthly. So filter um art engine dot filter dot calendar monthly. So m M unit is the month. Okay.

So we filter it monthly for each year this precipitation and we computed computed sum total. So this is our one parameter for precipitation for monthly precipitation I computed. So now another take a variable it's called the E mele transpiration I call and I call the data set for transpiration it's come from evapo in the evap filter so put the filter how I can filter art engine dot filter dot equal what's equal what uh sorry filter how uh calendar range calendar range >> range

>> for year and also unit is year. Okay. Then secondary filter for monthly dot filter calendar friends and month. Okay. So we find out that transpiration precipitation we compute the total total okay just put the sum sum and scale value simply put the multiply multiply the scale value this is 0.1 okay it's a scale value so now if simply apply our equation so what is our equation take a variable suppose I put the variable name is WB equal I call the precipitation P this P then subtract

with ET. This is my formula for water balance. Okay. So now I just rename it just rename it as a WB. So now what I return from this function? So just put here the return return. So I'll return uh WB set with year and also element is the year and also set with month. So put here month set with m and also set system time start system time start and define the date format e dot date dot from YMD right year, month, day and I define suppose year, month and date was first step. So we simply set this type of things. Okay.

And finally we define the function in here plotting otherwise it show a problem. So just put here the dot plot. Okay. So now we create the water balance. Okay monthly water balance for each year for each month. So this thing you also try to apply the chart and display the water balance. Same process. Okay. So just like copy this previous code is I simply copy to display the water balance for each month. Just paste and now simply change I just call the WB this variable and paste. Then ROI it's wed area I computed

average okay and put the band name band name I put the band name you can check I put the band name is the WB okay and we define the SQL 500 system start I put the series name suppose WB just run the So now we find out the water balance. Okay. If the water balance value is the negative if you check we find out the lot of negative. So from this water balance we take a decision. Okay which month you need the irrigation and which month you don't need the irrigation. Okay. So if you check we find out the

negative value first time we find out the negative okay less than zero. So then January we need the indication then check this this month also this month also you can see we find out it's a positive or a positive value or greater than zero. So this month don't need the irrigation this month we need the irrigation also you can see this month we need the irri uh irrigation because it's a negative value. So if the water balance is negative it's indicating you need the irrigation okay if the

irrigation or deficit the water and if the water balance is the less than greater than zero it means that lot of resource of water or runoff potential for your for your land. Okay. So this thing we can easily identify using the water balance concept uh for where you need the irrigation where you don't need the irrigation which month you need the irrigation which month you don't need the irrigation we can easily get this type of idea from the water balance concept okay in this time we are just use the

study area big study area but if you want you can also apply these things for the small crop plant suppose uh I just simply take a new geometry. Suppose this is my crop plant. So this is my crop plant. So or you can also digitize your circle or put the buffer study area for the crop plan. And further you can just use the geometry. Suppose I just put here the geometry. I need the result for my geometry. Geometry. Geometry. Geometry is my land. Just run the code. So now we can find out the result.

only for my this this geometry or this land we find out the result. Okay, we find out this type of result you can see. So for the specific crop plant or specific uh things we can easily identify just simply draw your study area or take the point okay or create the mention there you can easily get this result for the specific crop plant for the water balance need or when need or when don't need the water irrigation this type of information decision you can easily take from this water balance

concept you can see okay so I hope you also get the idea about this concept that okay any question you can ask me okay now suppose I want to visualize the map okay suppose uh in this case we try to display the map okay display the map we can easily get the identify for that uh water need or which place need the water which place don't need the water so let's go try to about this type of things how we can easily do it so for that we simply visualize our water balance map okay water balance map

we can easily visualize this. So let's go and try to show you this process. So for that just simply map dot add layer and I call the WB. Yeah. And then apply I compute those two bands and then clip with my study area which is uh name is I put the name ROI. So I put here that ROI. So now run the code and see what happened. So now you can check find out this type of result. Basically it show the different different month. Okay. Suppose this is the January. I want to show only for the January suppose single suppose

January 201 and I custom stressing 98% and apply and now if you check in the month of January suppose I put it's not worth or I take the more big study area then it look more better because in this time you're applying that uh chart satellite data okay which is not better just run the code it work for the more better map you find out for the big study area for the visualization just click on here and click on the bands one I took about January February March April till May, June, July, August, September, October, November,

December. Okay. Then simply you can see January, February, March, all of those we can easily get the all of month. So I want to display suppose January stressing level 98%. Put the color suppose water deficit I want to show this type of color red color it need the water irrigation then less than greater than this type of yellow color then suppose this type of green color and water put this type of color. So now apply. So now you find out this type of map if you check. So now this type of red color

indicating about that water deficit area. Okay. So this type of place if you have the land or agricultural land for the month of January you need the irrigation this type of place. Okay. If you cultivate the any crop then you need but you can check this type of place have the lot of water resource. Okay. Then don't need for the irrigation this type of place. Okay. Suppose this is the very high deficit. Then suppose high low very low water balance we find out this type of combination. So you

also represent this type of you can see this is the January this is only for the January then you try to check for the February so we can say the second one it's a February then suppose you check it for the Janu February March this the March then April so any year we can simply check this way all of monthly evapo transpiration water balance map we can easily visualize and display where you need the irrigation where you where you don't need the irrigation you can easily get this type of idea so you can see for this we find

out this type of map Okay, month of uh January, February, March, April, April you find out this type of map. So in the April you need this type of land don't need for the irrigation. But if you have this type of place, if you have need the land so then you need the irrigation this type of land. Okay, it's the moderate or high. So you can create this type of things. Okay. and visualize. And if you in this case when you work with suppose more small study area so this type data is very got uh pixel size

is very high but when you work with your more local region then your data set must be very good then we find out the very good map but it also help you for the big study area suppose I want to monitor water deficit area for the whole country boundary of Bangladesh or water balance for the whole country boundary of Bangladesh then this data set will work very well so I'll show you the result suppose just I simply I import my study area. Uh suppose just import this study area. So this is my table. So I need this result for this

table and run the book. So now it's loaded for the whole county boundary of Bangladesh. So now you find out this type of result if you check and now compare the result. Suppose we're going to check for only for January 2000 it's traing levels of 90%. Okay. Or I to say suppose any specific other than suppose January, February to this date or I put suppose this October. Okay. So just try to add the color So now if you check compare the result in the in this month. Okay. So you can see we find out this type of place we

find out the water deficit area. This type of red color. Okay. Also you can see this type of place. Okay. You can see this type of place it's very good. Water we find out for this type of place also this type of place. But you can see this type of place we find out the deficit of water. And if you have this type of area, if you have the uh crop plant or or agricultural land, then you need to irrigation in the month of October. October. Yeah. So if you then irrigation this type of place suppose this type of

place don't need also you can see this type of place also don't need. So we can get the decision from here for the large scale area. Okay. And also make the time series chart from the time series you can easily get the idea for the water balance calculation value. If the value is the less than zero it means that negative negative you need the water irrigation or water deficit. Okay.

Class 14

Pro growth monitoring yeah using remote sensing and I hope you also get the previous video class you can also get yeah okay >> okay so let's go start so let me share my screen okay can you see my screen is it visible yes it's Okay. Thank you. So let's >> so basically today's topic I discuss about that uh I already make some practical code for our crop uh analysis using remote sensing. So how we can easily monitor the crop okay using the different way in remote sensing I also

discuss about that such as how we can easily okay let me open my slide as well as we also discuss about that uh crop uh phenology okay how we can easily track the growth of crop then detect the stress then predict yield and also support from management using remote sensing so I will try to explain all of those from beginners to advanced level then I hope you can easily get the idea and further you can say apply this type of things for your uh study area. Okay. So let me open my slide just a minute.

Okay. So today should I discuss about that how we can crop monitoring with remote sensing and help of GIS mainly how we can track the growth then detect the stress of crop then also predict the yield and also support farm management using GIS and remote sensing. So first of all crop phenological model. So this model is very helpful to identify different steps of crops. we can easily get the idea. So today's discuss about that prop phenological model and how we can easily use this prop phenological

model. We also discuss as well as how we can easily um apply the crop penalical model for different crop types analysis or prop growth or crop production yield prediction. So this type of things how we can apply this prop phenological model we also discuss about that. So first of all uh prop phenological model is the study of the periodic plant life cycle event suppose it mainly study about that periodic plant life suppose for the um season of growth then peak of the growth then harvesting so it's phenology phenology

means that study of the periodic plant life cycle event showing to following to harvesting okay uh so this is the phology it mainly about the periodic plant life cycle event. A phenological model predict when this stress uh occurs based on the climate, soil management and crop specific traits. So basically in this time we can easily find out that different phase of plant life suppose sewing then flooring then harvesting. So different types of phase we can easily identify using the phenology model and

this model predict when this stress occur based on the climate soil management and crop specific traits we can also use and it help the farmers and researcher suppose when will uh with follower under the current temperature print suppose I have a field of uh wheat okay so this follower under the current temperature print when uh we follower under the current temperature trend. We can easily get this idea from the phological model and how much will mice growing est shift under the climate change. Okay, so this type of things we

can easily detect using the phological model and what's the optimal swing debt to maximize the yield. Okay, so this type of things we can easily find out using the crop phological model. So any farmer any researcher they can easily get this type of answer. Suppose when will we follower under the current temperature trend suppose for the temperature how we can easily when we find out that these type of things and how much uh will mice grow stress shift under the climate change and what's the

optimal swing depth to maximize yield. So this type of things we can easily get using the crop phenological model as well as uh this is the component about that crop phenological model. Suppose thermal time thermal time basically growing degrees day or GDD it's a short form this is the thermal time thermal time basically is the growing degrees day then photo sensitivity then veralization mainly cold requirement and stress factor. So this four is mainly for your probe phenological model thermal time then photo periodic

sensitivity then veralization and also stress factor and then types of phological model. So different types of phenological model is available such as empirical model or statistical model. Okay empirical model and statistical model. Suppose this model based on the regression between the climate variable such as temperature then rainfall then day length then observe phenology and also simpler but less fixible under the changing condition. So it's called the empirical or statistical model. So this

statistical model based on the regression. Okay. So we can easily make the regression. Suppose climatic variable different types of climatic variable it can be temperature it can be rainfall it can be day length and object phology simpler but less flexible under the changing condition and also uh this another types it's called the process based model or dynamic model it's called the process based model. So this model basically simulate the physiological process such as photosynthesis then

respiration then carbon allocation. So we are used different types of process based model such as D deset then epism then obsot aqua crop. So this type of model we can easily use to identify for photosynthesis then respiration then carbon allocation and simulate the physical process. Okay. Can irrigate soil then water management practice. So these type of things we can easily get using this process based model and also finally remote sensing driven models. Suppose in remote sensing we can easily

use different types of satellite vegetation indexes such as NDVI, EVI or LII to detect the greening and peak growth and sensence. We can easily get and combine with climatic data to calibrate or validate the process model. So basically these three types of model we can use in the pro phenological such as empirical then process based and also remote sensing driven model. So these three model we are used in the c prop crop phenological and then application. So for the the basically using the crop phenological

model we can easily identify crop calendar design we can easily identify and determine the best harvest time. Okay, best swing or best harvest time we can easily identify using the crop phological model and also climate change impact simulated how warming shift phenology suppose uh for the temperature trend what's the impact on my crop we can easily get using this model or precision agriculture optimize irrigation then pesticides and fertilizer schedule we can also get using the crop phenological model and

also yield forecasting so yield depends on the strongly on the flooring and the grain the filling periods and remote sensing validation basically compare the satellite drive growth states with the simulated states. So this type of application we can easily do using the crop phenological model. And now suppose in this time I talk about the tracking crop growth. So how I can easily track the crop growth monitor the crop stress with different types of indexes suppose NDVI, EVI or ZCVI. So this type of indices were used to

monitor the crop estress. So different types of est we can find out and time series analysis to detect the anomalies and identify a special variability across the field. Suppose for that uh tracking of the growth we can easily identify different types of indexes suppose NDVI, EVI and ZCVI we can easily get identified for the crop growth as well as if you check suppose detecting stress. Okay, detecting stress. This stress can be water paste or diseases. So water stress we can easily get from NDWI or LST land surface temperature and

soil merure. So this type of data we can easily find out from the water stress. So for the water stress we can measurement using this type of factor NWI, LST, soil merure or paste or disease stress we can get the canopy reflectance anomalies. Okay. Paste or disease stress. These things we can find out using the canopy reflectance anomalies or use the composite to reduce the cloud or weather effect. So this is the detecting stress basically water stress pest or diseases we can get and estimating the plant vio and yield. So

bilution indexes for vioard or biomass or chlorophyll. We can also apply the regression model for yield prediction or seasonal forecasting with the multi-ensor data. These things and supporting farm management decision suppose irrigation optimize water schedule. We can easily identify optimize water schedule or pesticides apply only via the stress detected. Okay. Suppose I find out this is the stress jone. So I can simply apply the pesticide or harvesting predict the optimal harvesting timing. So and also

we can use this type of tool. Okay. So let's go try to uh show the practical example. So first of all I discuss about the tracking the group uh crop growth how we can easily identify. So we can use the different types of indexes. So let me show you the practical example. Suppose if you check here I already make this type of code. So this is my crop field. So this for this crop field I just simply take the crop field. So in this crop field I want to identify for the crop growth. Okay. I want to

identify for the crop growth using Can you >> Yeah, >> sir. Please. >> Yeah, please. >> Can you increase the phone size? >> Okay. Just Okay. So, just simply expand. >> Yeah. Please. >> Yes. When you increase the font size control then control and plus >> control plus okay >> yes so now if you check suppose I take the field suppose this is my field this is my crop field so for this crop field I want to identify for the crop growth okay so then if you check that this is

another example so this example we try to identify for the water stress suppose where I need to uh irrigation so I find out this type type of place I I need to irrigation this type of land or this type of field I need to p the irrigation so it's called the water stress okay then suppose we try to identify for crop yield prediction suppose where is we find out the maximum yield so how we can easily create this type of maximum yield prediction depend on the different types of factor we also discuss one by one and

this is the another one so this is the it's very interesting so in this time it show about that your irrigation priority okay first of all irrigation priority Then we also identify for the past like stress and NDVI or harvest readiness. Okay. So we can easily get this type of things. So I will try to explain and further we also discuss about that your uh SOS. SOS basically how we can easily identify for you can see SOS date then EOS date. Okay. And also finally another one is called um POS date. Okay. So we can

easily identify for POS and SOS. So this type of things basically season of in okay so this type of date we can also identify for the uh using the crop phenological model basically peak of season okay pos basically peak of season then further also you can see the another one sos okay or a we can also identify so SOS POS and US so these type of things we can also try to identify for the different date so let's try to explain all of those step by step then you can easily get the idea how we can

easily apply the water stress or identify for the different types of harvest uh harvest uh readingness then also har okay paste like stress so these type of things we try to identify step by step so first of all uh we discuss about that uh your this things so this thing is basically yeah so first of all I simply draw a study area suppose I just take the field suppose this is my study area so for this field I want to identify for the uh crop growth I want to monitor the crop growth so for that first of all I Simply apply

the time period. Suppose I simply take a variable start date and end date and I put the time. Suppose this is my time peri. So you can also put the specific season also. Suppose some season basically cultivate the different types of individual crops. So you also try to put this type of crops in here. So I simply take the one year. So for the one year I just simply try to check the crop growth using my time series chart. So when it will be high, when it will be low, you can easily get the idea. So

sewing st then suppose peak pickup st then we find out the harvesting st. Okay basically we find out the three st in the chart and finally I simply use here the sentinel 2 satellite imagery. For the sentinel 2 satellite imagery we are just use a function. So basically this function help you to remove the cloud and h from your satellite imagery. So basically I just take this function and this is my function band name. Okay. So this is a cloud mark band. So this cloud marks band I simply use and you use the

bit 10 and bit 11. So basically bit 10 and bit 11 is the cloud and also sus cloud. So this type of things I simply use. So this function basically I use for removing the cloud. So just I simply write the comment. So this function it's a remove remove the cloud and has from your satellite imagery. Okay. So this is my function I just create. It's helped me to remove the cloud and h further I simply call my collection. So I simply call the sentinel 2 surface reflectance harmonized imagery. Then filter bounds

with my study area. Then filter date with my time period. I already define the start date and end date. Then also I take suppose less than 60% cloud. Okay I take and then just simply apply the map. So this is my map function and this is my function variable name for removing the cloud. You can say this is my function variable name. So this function I simply replace in here using the map function. So now it connect with my uh image collection and remove all of cloud. It's easily remove all of cloud.

And further we are just creating a function. You can see I create another function. So this function basically compute the normalized difference. Normalize difference between near infrared band and red band. Okay. I rename it as NDVI and further I simply return this band as a image. Okay. Return this band. I simply as a band and for that I simply display the map. So you can check just I simply uh display this map map at layer and also okay add this. So now if I just run the code so then we can easily get the

result. So this is our map which generate for NDVI okay for the one year. So if you want you can also take the crop field and also put the specific time period for a specific crop when you identify suppose only for the rice only for the jude only for the sugar can. So you need to identify when this type of prop is cultivated. Okay when the sewing when the harvesting so and when the pick up the growth. So this type of idea. So you can simply put your season. Okay. So in this time I take the whole year.

Okay. And then I simply identify for the crop swing and also crop pickup stress. And finally for the harvesting so we can get this type of chart. So from the chart we can easily get the idea uh when the sewing date when the harvesting date when the your pick of the st okay we can easily get the identify the prop growth. So now I just use here the NDVI. So just I create this type of normal difference and I put this type of result if you check. So we find out this type of result. If you want you can also change

the color. So I put this type of color. Suppose I want to change the color combination. So for that you can put any color combination. Suppose then I put here um this type of color or put here suppose this type of color I put this type of dark color for the good or vegetation or prop just apply. So now you find out this type of color. So this type of green color it's indicating about the very high growth of crop we find out. Okay. And this type of place you can see it not mass. So I think for this time or for this season

it not be cultivated or this prop is stressing. But in this field if you check so we find out this type of place we find out the very high density or high value of NDVI. So it means that for this type of probe we find out the very good result or good production or we find out the good prof. I find out. So now if you check I want to identify uh the phenological model. So I want to identify phenological model. So suppose sewing date then peak of stress and also harvesting date. So for that we need to

create a time series chart. Okay. So how I can make the time series chart very easy. We already discussed about that. So for that I simply take the NDVI chart take a variable and then UI chart image dot series. Then I simply call my image collection. So I already S2 is started my image collection. You can check. So this is variable started the image collection. So from this image collection I simply select the NDVI. So this is my band. I already create the band and I simply region it's my field

and then I just take the reducer educate about the mean and then scale is the 10 m for resolution. I add the title as well also X level title Y level title. I simply add I just I simply add all of uncheck and make the line with a print chart. So finally we just print the chart. So now run the code. So now it show you a chart and from this chart we can easily get the idea about our uh prop showing that also prop pickup st and also identify about that your harvesting. Okay. So if you check Okay. So we find out this type of chart

if you check this chart. So in this chart if you check we find out the first time it show the low NDVI you can see it is at the low after that you can see it it increasing increasing. So it's the growing stress. So this is the growing stress. After that you can see NDA is also less also also less sequentially also less less we find out the less. So this is the list for the harvesting time we find out. Okay, first time we are simply sewing our seed on the field. So then the so this type of seeds are

growing step by step you can see. So that's why you also find out that NDVA is also increasing increasing increasing and we find out that very good NDVI on this time. So June 8th so this is the peak growth stage. This is the peak growth stage of your crop. Okay, this is the peak growth stage of the crop. After that it simply you can see decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease and then we find out this is the low. Okay. So it means that we find out that this is the time for harvesting time. So NDI

value is also low for the harvesting time for the region of harvesting. So now this is the chart for the whole whole study area. So this is our whole study area we find out this type of chart. But I want to check only for this field. I want to check suppose only for this field. So for that if you want you can simply take a marker suppose I just take a marker and I take the new layer okay and I just take suppose this is my suppose this is my field okay just I click on here so it's a uh now we can

simply check for this field what the scenario of that so simply change the study area suppose I simply put here the geometry I simply change the region of interest geometry so now I find out the grow phenological growth tracking only for this field only for this field I find out. So I find out this type of things you can check it show this type of chart and we find out the line breaking chart. Okay. So this line breaking chart we can also create the continuous chart just we need to open a another argument. So it's called that

your this argument name is we need to apply here interpolate null. So just I apply it suppose interolate null. So when you apply the interpolate lo then we find out that uh continuous chart without line breaking. So now run that again. And now if you check we find out for this type of result. So we find out this type of things you can check. So in this time if you check this is the another graph. So in this graph what what I can see you can see. So first time I simply swing okay swinging my seed then it simply

increasing in the pickup stage or growing we find out and you can see it totally decrease. we find out the 0.3 so in this time if you check and then finally you can see it also increasing increasing the NDVI value increasing the NDVI value increasing the ND and finally decreasing so from this field we find out that two season of crop okay suppose this land or this area we find out that two times suppose first in in a year in a year they cultivated the crop two times so first time we find out from

here. So this is the first time. So this is the uh this is the growing season. This is the growing time and this is the harvesting time. Again they are also cultivated again the growing season. This is the this is the this is the sewing season and this is the harvesting season. So now we find out for this crop they cultivate the crops in the two time in a year. Okay. So then so that's the region we find out this type of chart. Okay. You can see we find out that so it will be just sewing season and it can

see pick up estance and then also down the NDVI value. So this is the harvesting. So after that they are also growing also sewing the seed and you can see pickup season and then we find out this type of things. So this is from this chart we can also get this type of idea. Some uh field we find out the two crops in a one year some field three crops in a one year. So we also find out this type of things from here. we can get the idea from the from this type of uh growth tracking chart. It's called the uh pro grow

growth tracking chart. So now if you want suppose I just get the result only for this point only for this point but I need the result for this for this whole land suppose whole circle. So for that you can simply use a buffer suppose how I can make the buffer. So it's very easy just you simply use here the geometry dot buffer and define your buffer study area. Suppose I put the buffer is that uh suppose uh 100 m. So now let's check and if you want suppose I just show the buffer area also then it will be look

more better then you can check it it will be cover or not. So for that I just take a variable suppose I put the suppose buffer field buffer field. So now in the buffer field I call my geometry and apply the buffer and take the suppose 100 m. So now let's check the buffer study area map. Add layer and call the buffer field. Just copy and run the code. So now let's check it also added the another layer. So you can see it also create the buffer but not fill up my full land. So I simply increase suppose lapper 1,000 m.

So now let's check what happen. Okay, it's very big. You can see. So now I need to reduce the number. So I put here suppose uh 500 Okay, it also cover but I also put here suppose 400 I then I hope it will be properly cover my prop area okay so it's okay suppose you can see in this time I just use the field buffer so I want to just suppose this is my land or crop prop. So this land I want to check the uh tracking the prop using the NDVI. So for that what can I do? Just I copy the field buffer field and I just

use in here. So now run the code. So now you find out this type of result you can check. Okay. So you can check we find out that sometime this is the NDVI. So we find out this for this land we find out the NDVI result. It will be start from here. So it can say find out the negative and if the negative so negative means that there is no crop okay so it will be water okay without without crop suppose this is the land just water not any kinds of crop you can see we also find out it also increasing

okay 0.3 then you can see 0.3 then also decreasing then again increasing we find out increasing or decreasing so you can see find out this type of uh pickup is this is the growth pickup Okay, this is the growth pickup estates. But in this chart we find out that this is the highest uh growth. Okay, this is the highest growth of um props we find out. Okay, this is the growing. So now we find out the tracking from here. So about this NDVI value 0.7 we find out that in the May 9 and also you can see

in the harvesting time you can see we find out that November 10 0.1 and finally you can see it also decreasing okay decreasing 0.3. So in this time suppose in the December 15 there is no crop there is no any kinds of crop on this field because it show the negative value 0.05 05. So this is the way we can just simply you in this case I just apply the NDVI but you can also apply the different types of indexes. Suppose if you check this is another so this it's very helpful. So it's called the ZCVI okay

it's the mapping vegetation health and productivity using the GCVI. GCVI basically it's another index. So this index basically green chlorophyll vegetation index. So it's very mass uh work. Okay. So we can easily identify. So NDVI basically it's work for that vegetation okay any kinds of vegetation but when you work with the crop then you try to use for the ZCVI it's called the green chlorophyll vegetation index we can easily use and identify for that uh vegetation health or chlorophyll also

productivity we can easily get so this is the we can easily get we can easily vegetation health or productivity or chlorophyll concentration we can easily get using these things and we can easily identify for the chart and from the chart we definitely get the idea for the sewing date then pick up then your the growing season what's the value of NDVI for the peakup stage or pickup growth and also harvesting this type of thing we can easily get it from here and this is the formula you can see GCVI so near

infrared band minus near divided by green and minus one so now we can easily get this formula we can easily apply for landset or sentinel sentinel 2 is better so you try to use the sentinel 2 freely but if you have the drone imagery We already know about that how we can easily apply the drone imagery. So we also try to use the drone then it will be look more better. So when you apply this type of formula okay so I also send you this type of PDF file also you also try to read then also get the lot of idea about that for the crop

growth monitoring and finally you can simply export as a tip file format and then we can easily show the crop growth where is the high growth where is the low growth we can easily get okay and from the uh imagery you can also use the real time okay suppose any field any field you try to observe. So you try to use if you check this imagery what is the last time about that. So this is the imagery and we can get the last time of the image is year of 2025 20. Okay. So this is the last time period about that. Okay. August 20

>> today. >> Yeah. Today. Yeah. So we can easily use the near real time. But uh for that for the present time we find out the lot of cloud. So that's why you also try to apply the cloud max function. Okay. You can see I also add the cloud max function in here. So this function when you apply and when you take the more cloud pixel 60 this cloud is not affect on your imagery even I put the 100 then this cloud is also not affected in my imagery. We find out the more better quality map when you apply the cloud max

function. So it's called the cloud max function. So this cloud mass function you can also always try uh for the near real time when you monitor because in the near real time we find out the lot of cloud in our satellite imagery. So that's why you also try to the cloud remover function in the near real time and further you can take the 100% cloud or 60% clouds if not affecting your satellite imagery then we just make the NDVI we can also apply the GCVI or EVI to monitor the time series and also time

series analy to detect the anomalies and identify a special variable across the field we can easily get it for specific things. So now we talk about that detecting the stress okay suppose it can be water stress or paste or diseases stress okay or how we can identify this type of stress in uh remote sensing. So let's go ahead show you that this type of things. So this is the result we find out for the crop growth monitoring or track tracking the crop growth for the different season in this time I just take the one year so

that's why it look like that. But when you just suppose for the rice, rice is cultivated for a specific season. Suppose sewing date and also harvesting date. So you try to apply this type of date in here and we can easily monitor the truck of the broth of the rice or sugar can or any specific um crop. We can easily identify the tracking the crop. Okay. So now we talk about that water stress. Okay. So it's very interesting. Suppose this is my study area. I just take this is my study area. So in this study area

I want to identify. So where I need to make the water suppose this is my field. This is my field. So this field I want to identify where I need to more water stress. This type of things I want to identify. Okay. So for that in this time we just use the NDWI basically normalized difference water index. Then we also use at the LST LST land surface temperature. We also use the soil moisture okay S map and finally we try to apply the water stress okay we just make the water stress so then we can easily find out so this type of red

color in this map we find out it's a very high stress of water in the field suppose you can see this type of field this type of red color it's identify about the high stress of water okay this type of place this type of place but this type of green color it not a stress of water so for this land I don't need to provide the irrigation. But for this type of place, this type of land, this type of red color, it show about the more stress of water. Okay. And if you check suppose stress class, we also try

to make the stress class. So this is the water stress index. So after creating the index, we also make the stress class. So we find out this type of stress class. So this type of red color indicating about the high stress of water. This type of red color. So this type of plant or this type of crop plant we need the water okay so it's a very high stress then suppose it's low and it's very low this type of green color it's not need the water but this type of uh this type of red color you must need

the water because it's the very high stress water stress we find out so now how I can monitor this type of thing I'll try to explain in here all of data set so first of all we simply define our study area this field and And then I simply take this type of season. Suppose uh January, February, March, March to May. Okay, we just take the May. So this is the peak growing window. We just simply put in here. And then same process just apply. We simply make the cloud marks function to remove the cloud

from our satellite imagery. Then I take the central to harmonized imagery. Okay. In this case, same process just apply and make the NDWI because now now we want to make the NDWI. And if you check I just add the NDWI map. This is the NDWI map. If you want you can also just show the result just stressing that it will look more better for mapping. NWI basically is normalized water index. So we can easily identify for the water where is the high where is the low we can get this type of idea from the NDWI. So in this time we are

just identify water stress based on NDWI. then land surface temperature and also soil moisture. So using these three factor we identify where we need the more stress of water where is the less stress of water. So this type of things I try to monitor using in here. So if you check this is the NWI so we can easily identify. So this type of place okay so you can see basically 0 minus 0.8 8 and then minus0.1. Okay. So it's not the water but NWI is very high for this type of place. Okay. This type of color indicating high. It's

not the water but we find out that very high NWI for this type of place. It's also negative because it's a it's a it's a vegetation. Okay. It's a vegetation. But if you compare this value then we find out this type of place is also have more water than this type of others this type of color others. Okay. So this is the NWI we simply may calculate the NWI and also take the NWI and then we take the LST. So in this time for the LST you can use here at the modis there is no problem you can use at the modis if you

want you can also use at the landset imagery landset if you want uh you can also use here um which one suppose sentinel sentinel 3 we can also use for monitoring the LST. So this type of mod is lancet you can also apply there is no problem but in this case I just take the modis but when you apply for the small study area then try to apply the landset so it provide the more better result when you apply the landset satellite imagery because it's 30 m okay so in this case I just apply the modice so this is the mod

satellite data and this mod satellite data if you check uh from here just check the data so this is the land surface temperature data from this that we can get this type of result LST 1 kilometer unit is the kelvin and this is the scale we need to use for repro the scale value so now I simply apply then also filter bounds with my study area then filter date I put the start date and end date I select my specific band and further I simply multiply 0.02 02 to make the reproed the scale value and subtract this value to

get the resent degrees CC. Okay. And rename it as LST. So now we simply return the LST as a brand in here. I can put the LST average LST for my field. If you want you can also display just display the average LST of my map. So we can find out this type of resolution can check because this resolution is the 1,000 m. Okay, that's why you find out this type of grid or cell. Okay, this type of GL find out because it's the 1,000 m pixel size. Okay, we can find out this type of things. But when you

work with the real project suppose for your real study area then try to apply for landset because landset is 30 m then we find out the more better map. So now it show you this type of grid or cell because it's the modis modice is the 1,000 m for pixel size. So now I just simply use this for the LST and finally also use at the this data it's called the soil moisture data. Okay from the NASA S map we take the data but this data set is is also not better for using for the small study area you can check this resolution is I

think 1,000 m you can see 9,000 m. Okay this is not much good. So that's why uh further class I discuss about that how we can easily use the landset imagery and make the soil moisture map. Okay, this thing is very important for the small study area when you suppose for the small crop area you want to monitor then try to use the landset imagery because landset is 30 m but now in this case I just use it because it's ready made you find out in here soil merch we find out in here and 9 kilometer grid or

cell for the soil merchure so this data I simply use in here but uh when you work with a small study area then try to apply for land sediment means land it to remove the soil moisture. >> So moisture from the land. >> Yes, it also possible but further we need to apply another algorithm. So inshallah I will show you that how we can easily use it and identify for the soil moisture as well as uh you can also apply the sentinel one also. Sentinel Sentinel one also but for that we need the ground root data of uh soil

moisture. Okay one data for net ground ground data okay of soil moisture. Okay, then we try to use the soil mer using the cellular one data. But for the landset we can easily apply algorithm and detect the soil moisture also. But this is the ready data globally we find out. But this resolution is not much good. So now we simply use it and compute the mean soil moisture. If you just check the map. So this is the map about the soil no just I try to show you that result. Just apply So you can see it show this type of cell

or grid. Okay. Only for three cell is fully fill up my study area because this is the 9,000 m pixel or grid cell. Okay. But when you work with the real project then you try to apply for landset or sentininal then you can find out the more better result. Okay. You can see just it show you only for the three cell. Okay. So now we find out this type of cell it's indicating about the very high stress of water. Okay. And then it's very low soil moisture soil mer low and it's very high. Okay. And it show

this type of result because it's the 9,000 m 9,000 m pixel size or grid size. Okay. So I take it this type of data from here. And finally we just make the water stress. Okay. So for the water stress we just create the normalization. Okay, normalization basically we need to reduce. Okay, we need to reduce all of those normalization and I just for that all of all of data set just keep the same scale when I compute the value using the normalization. See in this time I just take the 250 m all of data

suppose it it including all of data. Okay. So it can be so merch or also for your uh NDWI or LSD. So I take the all of those and then I simply start the percentile. Okay. 95% person to compute and then just simply apply connect the band all of band together. Okay. And then okay it's not need. So now we calculate the 95% percentile and we just simply return the can divided with this value subtract with this value and then maximum with this and we compute you can see okay so in this time you can see high NDI

equal to low stress okay suppose if the ND NWI value is high so it means that low low stress of water okay then high LST value suppose I find out the high LST value for any study area. So it means that high stress of water. Okay. And I find out suppose high soil moisture value. So high soil moisture value it's indicating about the how it's indicating about that low stress of water when I find out the high soil moisture value. So just we simply apply this type of things just normalize. I

just normalized and call this NWI then LST and soil merchure and connect with my study area. So this is my field. This is my field. It started my shape file this boundary. So then we simply compute you can see just apply the for formula. So just I call the LST basically LST add and then subtract with NWI then add with soil moisture. Okay. Basically we simply add uh you can see just like add the LST LST and also add the your uh you can see add the soil moisture simply subtract these two things simply subtract in here

because it's the low impact of that your soil water stress crop water stress so for that LST then add subtract LST subtract with NWI then add with and subtract with soil moisture and divided by three and this thing we simply apply the rename as the water stress. So now we find out this type of water stress map. If you check we find out this type of water stress map. Okay. So now for this type of place we find out suppose NWI is very high okay high NWI value and LST is low okay and soil moisture is

also high for this type of green color. So that's why we find out that it's a it's it's very low stress low stress of water. And finally we simply make the class. Okay we just simply make the severity class. Suppose uh we just simply low, moderate, high and sever. So for that we simply just you can see I take the stress. I just call this variable stress and make the class. Yes please please. >> I have not I have not understood the code the above there. >> Okay just I try to explain again. So in

this case we try to identify a stress using the three factor. First factor is NDWI. Second factor is the LST and third factor is the soil moisture. Okay. Suppose for a study area for a study area suppose this study area NWI value is very high. If the high NI value it's indicating about the low stress okay and low NDWI value it is indicating about the high stress. Okay. invert suppose this type of place I find out that high NDWI value so this high NWI value indicating about the low stress but this

type of place I find out the low NDWI value so it's indicating about that high stress okay or vice versa then high LST so high LST uh suppose this type of place we find out that low LST lowst basically eating about the low stress. Okay. But high LST indicating about the highest stress. This type of place we find out the highest stress and finally soil moisture. Soil moisture if the soil moisture value is the high it means that low stress. Okay. And if the soil moisture value is the low it means that

high stress. Okay. Suppose for this type of place soil moisture is very low. Okay. This type of region red color soil moisture is very low. So that's the reason we find out that high stress and this type of place soil moisture is very high. So that's why you find out that low stress. Okay. And finally when you compute the stress in this time we simply call the LST. Okay LST. So this is the LST. This LST we simply subtract with N DWI. Okay. Then subtract with >> nom. Yeah. >> Nom01. What is nom1?

>> Which one? >> Nom 01. You see nom. >> Oh, normalize. Normalize. It's called the normalize. So you can see. Yeah. Yeah. So for that we create a function. You can check. So in this case we create a function normalized and we define the image and region. So all of data. So in this time we have total three data NW LST and so map. So all of data we simply normalize 0 to one 0 to one value. Okay. All of data we just simply normalized. >> Yeah. >> 0 to one and also keep the same scale

when you compute the normalize. So this is my function normalize. So I simply call the normalized function variable name in here and define the NDWI. I already make the NWI if you check. So just I simply call it. Okay. Just I simply call it NI. This thing I simply call and paste here. Basically I simply use the this is my function. I simply call it and this is my stud area. So this is my function. I simply call the LST. I already make the LST LST average. You can see I already make the LST average.

So this thing I simply compute and then connect with my function. Okay. This norm norm this this variable basically store the function. This function I included the normalize all of data and compute the normalize 0 to 1 and then we simply connecting with our value. Suppose this is the value for NWI and this is my uh study area. This is the value of LST and this is my study area. This is the value of soil mer and this is my study area. So now we simply use all of those and it is stored in this variable. In this variable in this

variable I store it normalized value. Okay, this value is straight the normalized value. So this is my function. So I create a function and this function I simply use different different factor. Okay, so now further we simply apply this formula. Okay, this formula basically LST subtract with NWI and subtract with soil moisture and divide it with three because we have three factors and then we simply name is the water stress index and then we just simply uh get this type of water index map. So this is my water

index water stress index map. So from this index now we can easily get where is the high stress of water this type of place this type of red color and this type of place is the low stress and further we also make the class suppose I just make the three class uh low moderate and sever how I can make the three class. So for the three class we simply call the stress I put the less than if the stress value less than 0.33 then we make the low okay and then add the stress greater than equal 0.33 and stress less than 0.66 okay between this

range we find out that two two basically moderate this is my another class and finally stress if the greater than equal 0.66 six six we make the another class three three is the s now we finally finally finally we simply add this map if you check we find out the stress class so we find out this type of is it's a very high stress okay this type of uh stress less than 0.33 okay very high stress this type of red color sorry this type of three color this type of red color okay it the class three it's the

class three this type of place the class three Because this type of place stress value is the 0.6 uh 0.66 greater than if you check the value suppose just I show you the stress value just click on the red color. So this value will be greater than equal 0.66 if you check this is water stress value will be greater than equal 0.66 we find out the 0.7 okay 0.7 which is the greater than equal 0.66. So this type of place we find out the high stress of water. Okay. Then uh this type of yellow color it's indicating about

that this range 0.33 to 0.66. This range it's a moderate. So if you check it just click on here. So now you find out the value between this range 0.33 to 0.66. Between this we find out the yellow color and it's indicating about the moderate stress of water. Okay, we found the 0.5. Okay, 0.5. So this value belongs with 0.33 to 0.66. So it's a moderate class. But if you check this type of green color, it's indicating about the lowest stress. Okay, lowest less than 0.33. So we find

out the less than 0.33 for this type of green color and it's indicating about the low stress of water we find the 0.1 okay so that's why we find out this type of map for the water stress map for our study area so it's low this type of green color is the low stress the yellow is the moderate and red is the very high stress of water okay did you get the idea about that >> yes yes Okay. >> Yes. >> So further we try to check the area suppose how much area is available for

that water high stress low stress and also moderate stress. So this is the layer we simply add all of classes and also add the legend. Okay. This type of leent. So it's not mandatory. Okay. So we try to create the calculate the area. So it's very easy. We already about that how we can make the area. Okay. Suppose for that uh it okay. So this is the leen code. So now it will be start from here. So we simply calculate the area suppose low stress how much area moderate how much area and saver

how much area or extreme how much area we try to identify. So for that here I already calculate the area if you check we find out that area total four class three class. So this is the low. We find out that area is a 24 square kilometer area. Then we find out that moderate this moderate is for 151 and find out what that how much area for saver or extreme. We find out the 21 square kilometer area red color. This thing we can also define using the chart. Okay, just make a chart and define the area also. Okay, just click

on here. Then you can get this type of chart. Water class. So you can see low lowest stress 24 square km area. Then moderate is the 151 and saver we find out the 21 square km area for our study area. We find out this type of water stress class. Okay. So this is the calculation part. I could also try to use the same code to for the calculating the area. But this is the main um step to identify for water stress. And in this case uh I just take the big study area. But when you work with the small study area then you

need to change some data. So you need to apply for the landset because this soil mer data is not good. So this soil mer data is the 9,000 m. Okay. So that's why it not show you the more better result for the small crop area. So that's why we need to use the uh sentinel one data or also landset data to identify for soil mer. But this is the readyate data set for globally is available. we can easily use it for globally. Then you find out okay I hope you get the idea. So I also send you this also try to practice later.

So now it's very important about the crop yield prediction. So how we can easily apply the crop yield prediction. So it's very important for the crop yield prediction to identify for the crop yield for any specific crop. But it also more better if you have the ground truth data. Suppose for the pre historical data. So this historical data is also help you to identify for the crop growth or crop yield prediction you also find out from here. And we also use the different types of factor which

influence the crop yield. Okay. Suppose temperature then EVI then different types of index of remote sensing we can identify and we can identify for the crop growth. So let's go ahead to discuss about that how we can easily use and further we also try to identify suppose root mean square error okay suppose uh this is the this is the compare between the your ground truth data crop yield and also satellite okay and this is the r square value per pearson r square value so this is the relation between the ground data

ground data of your uh data of the prop yield and also satellite based prop yield data we simply compare And then we find out that if the correlation value is the 0.5 greater than 0.8 it's more better. Okay. If the correlation value is more high it means that your map is more accurate. Your prediction is more accurate. Okay. So this is the then you can see mean absolute error. This is the value about that and root mean square error. This is the value about that. And we also try to create this type of chart

to identify for yield. Okay, ground truth and also identify for your uh observed field from the satellite data. So now in this case uh how I can use it I'll show you that. So in this case we try to take this type of a study area. So this is my study area. Okay. So in this study area we try to identify. Okay let me show you that. So I just create the NDVI map first of all. So this is my ind map and then we try to identify for a predict guild. So this is the break.

Class 15

Hello. Good evening. Can you hear me? >> Yes. Yes, sir. >> Yeah. How are you? >> I'm good. How are you, sir? >> Yeah. Alhamdulillah. I'm fine. Okay. Hope everything is good from your side. Yeah. >> Yeah. I'm not so good. Long time. >> Yeah. After a long time, we'll meet for another training session. Okay. So I hope you can get all of those from beginners to advance level and then you can easily learn the agriculture precision. Okay. All of topic I try to

complete it. Okay. No problem. So let's go. First of all I try to discuss about our course module. Okay. So after completing the full syllabus what you will learn. Okay. and you want to make a research title after completing this training and then you try to publish the scientific paper also. So that's why I also try to give you the research based analysis and I also try to all time I will try to show you some reference paper or reference scientific paper for agricultural precision then you can easily get the

idea and then you try to implement okay so let me share my screen. Okay. >> Okay. Can you see my screen? Is it visible? >> Yes, it is. >> Okay. Thank you. Yes, please. >> Can you remove my my my >> Okay. Okay. >> Okay. So, basically you want to enroll this training program. Okay. This is the PlayStation agriculture using remote sensing. Yes, please. >> Okay. Can you remove this my name on that screen because it just adding something? >> Uh, okay. Okay. So, okay. So, I'll do

it. No problem. No problem. Okay. So basically um you want to enroll this online training program uh precision agriculture technology how we can use the different types of precision agriculture tools and practice that uses data sensors or automation to optimize the farming operation for higher efficiency and lower environmental impact. Okay. So first of all I try to explain about that uh course syllabus. So basically zero special data analysis in precision agriculture. It mainly focus this type of topic. Suppose soil

mapping create the detailed maps of texture. Then soil nutrient level. Okay. So how we find out the high nutrient where we find out the low nutrient then soil pH then moisture content. Okay. And identify site specific need for the fertilizer. Okay. Suppose this place I need the fertilizer and this place I not need the fertilizer. So this type of place we can also identify using the soil mapping as well as soil corrective application. Okay. So this is the process for the soil mapping as well as we also do for the crop monitoring.

Okay. Crop monitoring basically track the crop growth and detect the water stress. Okay. Then pest and diseases we can also identify using this way and estimate the palant var and also yield prediction it's very important. Okay. So it can be crop prediction or different types of crop we can simply predict the yield and then support decision for the irrigation we can also use the irrigation then pesticide euse and harvesting. So this type of things we can also apply for the crop monitoring. So I'll try to show you that all of

those step by step practically you can easily get this type of knowledge and further you can also apply for your own study area. Okay. And also we can also identify the productivity joning. Okay. Suppose this place we can easily segment into the jone based suppose yield history then topography soil quality and climate data. We can also including and identify the productivity joning and maximize the potential in fert fertile areas and manage and manage the less productivity zone. We can also identify and application of the

agriculture input. We can easily use the fertilizers then pesticide or seed. Okay. It reduce the cost avoid the wast as well as we also do the irrigation management. It's very important. So irrigation management basically optimize the water use with soil moair map. We can easily identify where the high moisture where the low moisture okay where we find out the low moisture we need the irrigation suppose where I find out the high soil moisture we don't need the irrigation mass as well as apply

water only where and when needed we can also identify and prevent under or over irrigation suppose this place have lot of water but you also uh put the irrigation so it just wast your money so that's why you can also identify prevent under or over irrigation using the irrigation management. So I'll try to show you that all of application how we can easily identify this type of things and basically in this online training program we also focus understand the principle of the precision agriculture

in remote sensing. Then we are just use at the Google Earth engine as well as we also use the some machine learning in Python as well as also use some collab notebook we also use and we also discuss about that how we can easily processing and analyzing the remote sensing data as well as I will also add some drone imagery because you also want to focus for the UAV image so aial image so I also try to add this type of application how we can really apply the drone imagery or UAV imagery to identify the

agriculture monitor growing precision agriculture. We'll discuss about that and apply remote sensing technique to monitor and manage the agriculture resources and develop the interpret and remote sensing data for dig agriculture. So you already completed my another 7 days onlineing program you also complete. So I hope you can also know about the basic programming skill about the JavaScript and Python as well as you already know about the basic uh GIS geographic information system. Okay. So that's why I am not going this type of

topic because you already know about that. So don't we don't waste our time for the programming or other thing you already know about this. So this same concept we also use and further we also try to uh use this type of technique for the precision agriculture. So now first uh introduction to precision agriculture today I discuss about that and remote sensing and overview of the precision agriculture definition importance then historical development then we talk about some basic remote sensing how we can easily

connect with the agriculture we also discuss about that and also discuss about the remote sensing platform and sensor. So different types of satellite sensor we also discuss how we can easily connect with the agriculture because there are the lot of satellite imagery is available but which satellite image is more effective to identify different types of agriculture precision we also discuss about that as well as we also discuss about that uh Google Earth Engine you already have the account for the Google Earth Engine and also you

already have the Google Earth Engine interface and tool already know about that how we can easily set up the account how we can easily create the environment so I just ignore this type of part. Then we'll discuss about this type of things. Suppose different types of remote sensing data. It can be optical. How we can easily use the optical data, thermal data, rad data, different types of data sources, landset, sentinel, modis. Okay. How we can easily spectral signature of probe. Okay. Using the different types of

pition indexes and assessing and the visualizing the remote sensing data in Google Earth Engine. We also discuss about that and we also discuss about that uh image processing and analysis in Google Earth Engine. Okay, suppose atmospheric correction, radiometric correction, geometric correction and image classification. You already know about this type of supervised, unsupervised. But in this case, I add some more details. Suppose how I can uh classify the drone image. Suppose this is one kind of drone image. So this

drone image how I can classify. Suppose it's a one kind of drone image. So this drone image I just classify and identify suppose uh classification you can see I just apply and identify suppose sugar can forest buildup and barrel land. Okay. So this type of grown imagery grown imagery basically very high resolution imagery. So this type of grown imagery how we can use and identify suppose land use land cover classification using machine learning. It can be supervised or unsupervised. So these type of things I also try to

explain then you can easily get the idea how we can easily take the drone image and then how we can easily use this drone image to identify for the classification not only for the classification different types of work suppose remote different types of remote sensing work it can be NDVI EVI or anything we can do no problem then uh we also discuss about that uh implementing pre uh image processing and classification Google thing we'll discuss about that and also discuss about the vegetation indexes and prop

monitoring So basically in the agriculture we are just use different types of indexes. Okay, different types of vegetation indexes. If you simply search suppose um vegetation indexes indexes list in remote sensing simply search then we find out that lot of uh visitation indexes list. If you change just click on here then I hope it will. Yeah. So this is the list of destination. So you can see it provide that very long list. So this type of things we also use for NDVI then savvi then masvi2 then osiv.

So it provide a lot of equation for the different different uh visation indexes. So how we can use do this type of vegetation indexes and then further how we can easily do different types of things how we can easily identify crop health monitoring or also crop stress monitoring or water stress monitoring. So this type of things I try to explain. Okay. So this lot of index is available in the remote sensing for the vegetation. Okay. So if you check this so you can see remote sensing indexes. So we find out the different different

indexes how we can easily create this type of a spectral profile. Okay, suppose bands pixel value. Okay, we also discuss about that. You can see this is the NDVI. It's one kind of remote sensing index. ENVI, ENVI, then NWI. Okay, then motivate soil adjusted. So different types of uh index are available for that only for the agriculture or agriculture monitoring. So this type of agriculture index or indexes we are used for the different purpose to identify suppose crop health or crop growth. So different types of

crop monitoring we use this type of index also you can see this the forest canopy density FCD. Okay. So this is the formula about that AVI shadow different types of band we also use to compute this type of things. So you can see for NDVI how we can easily use the NDVI. Okay. As this is the formula about the NDVI this is the EVI in enhanced vegetation index. Okay. This is the formula about that. So this type of things we are just use and identify for the different types of prop monitoring okay or forest canopia.

So we also discuss this a bit later about this type of things as well as we also discuss about the soil and water management okay soil and water management using remote sensing suppose soil merchure okay how we can compute using the different sensor it can be landset how we can easily monitor the soil merchure then health monitoring okay remote sensing technique for soil analysis then water management in agriculture suppose water efficiency how to use the water efficiently we also discuss about that and also irrigation

schedule suppose uh for your crop when you need to um irrigate when you need okay so this type we discuss about that and analyzing soil and water data in Google Earth Engine okay as well as we also discuss about the yield prediction yield prediction model okay how we can develop the yield prediction model using machine learning or deep learning we can also apply this type of e prediction model and remote sensing for e estimation we also discuss and also p or disase monitoring or identifying on managing the crop dis. We also discuss

about that. So it topic lot of topics it will be covered in this online training session as well as machine learning in precision agriculture or application of uh AI and ML in agriculture case studies we also discuss about that. Okay. And if you check some scientific paper suppose I simply go to the Google scholar and already lot of review paper is already published how to use Google uh precision agriculture for remote sensing analysis. So if you simply search suppose agriculture using remote sensing. So we can find out this type

suppose again application of remote sensing in pre agriculture a review paper just simply check then we find out okay lot of application okay how to use the remote sensing in the agriculture precision for the different types of uh way okay so you also try to read this type of paper then you'll get the lot of idea how we can easily work okay so how we can easily uh work with the ground data suppose you can see they using the aircraft scanning and take the UV image measuring they also use the ground

sensing for carbon. So this is type this type of tool we can also use in our field. Okay. So this type of tool you are just used for taking the carbon dioxide or gas emitted. We just measurement using this tool as well as this type of it provide the data from your ground. So further this type of data we are just using the remote sensing to check the calibration or check the accuracy or create the map. So it's very helpful to use this type of tool. Okay. So you also try to read this full paper then also get the lot of idea

about that application of uh uh of your agriculture precision. Okay. Suppose you can see evapo transpiration. So ET how we can easily compute the evapo transpiration and how we can easily connect with the agriculture precision. Okay. As well as if you check the another one is for soil moisture. Okay. How we can easily connect the soil moisture in the agriculture precision. If you check uh the another suppose nutrient management. So how we can easily um monitor the nutrient for our study area or proof field. Okay. If

you check suppose another disease management. So how we can easily management the disease. So different types of application as well as there also add the how how we can easily apply this type of method as well as water management. Okay. If you check the another prop monitoring and yield prediction. Okay. Then uh progress the made needs and challenges they also add. So this type of application they are including in this application of remote sensing and pristine agriculture. So you also try to read it then you also get some practical

idea. So I I will send you all of materials and I also open a Google classroom. So from here you can easily get all of those. No problem. >> Okay. I'll get your material even those scientific paper will be in the classroom. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. So I'll send no problem. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So let's go. So today's discuss about that uh some Okay. Let me open my slide. So basically this is our precision agriculture with machine learning, deep learning and geospatial data analysis.

>> Yeah. Can you see my screen? >> Yes. I see. Can you maximize the screen because I see the wide the wide face of your screen? >> Okay. So, it show the small screen or big screen. >> A small screen. Small screen. >> Okay. Just a minute. >> Maybe you to remove your your your name and picture in the screen because it is occupying the right space. Now, it's okay or not? It is okay. It is okay. But I'm telling about your your your account, your your name and your face,

your picture. Okay. You Okay. So now it's okay. >> So let me let me send you you can see it. >> Yeah. Yeah. Send me the message. >> Send me the message. >> WhatsApp. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yes. You can you can see it. Check check my check your WhatsApp. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, yeah, I can see. >> So, this thing you can also rearrange. So, for that you can simply click on the if you check you can simply click on here and uh click on this option more option and you can see the adjusted

view. Okay. Click on the adjusted view. >> Click here. >> Adjusted view. >> Adjusted view. >> Yeah. Adjusted view. >> Yeah. So now you just click on the side bar. You can see the more option. >> Yeah. Adjusted view. You can see the sidebar. Okay. Then okay. Then it will be I think it's show the sidebar. >> Okay. >> Sidebar. Yes. Yes. >> So now >> Okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So let's stop >> now. It's open. Okay. So let's go. We start precision

agriculture with machine learning, deep learning and geospatial data analysis. So basically in this um training I will try to show you the some example for machine learning as well as also show some example for deep learning and also help of geospacecial data analysis. Okay. So it cover lot of topic uh I hope it will be covered. Uh so let's go start one by one. So first of all geospacecial data analysis in precision agriculture. So basically we already discussed about that. So this type basically these four

types of application suppose soil mapping crop monitoring productivity joining and application of agriculture input. So basically these four types of analysis we are doing using the precision agriculture and help of geospaceial data. Suppose soil mapping we created the detailed maps for texture, nutrient level, pH and moisture content. Identify site for a specified uh needs of the fertilizer and soil corrective applies and also use the prop monitoring suppose crop growth or water stress or diseases of our irrigation. So

these type of things monitoring. So basically these four types of application we are just applying in our um precision agriculture topic. So basically the key application in remote sensing in pre agriculture is that irrigation management it's very important how we can management the irrigation then nutrient management then diseases management then also wood management and also crop monitoring and yield estimation. So these five types of application are the key application in precision agriculture.

Then why use the satellite for uh agriculture application? Basically timely we find get all of data. Then objective then local to global coverage. We can easily get the result for whole study area or big study area. Then useful for observing areas that are inaccessible. Suppose some place you cannot visit the u physically. So this type of place we can easily monitor using the remote sensing and as well as monitoring the plant growth and estimate the crop productivity we can also estimate and then assess the soil moisture and

irrigation requirement. Okay suppose irrigation requirement is depend on the soil moisture. So if you know the soil moisture for your for your prop field then you can easily get the idea for this uh prop plant soil irrigation is needed or not. So we can easily get the idea from here. And then identify soil and crop characteristics and condition. Okay. As well as we can also better for forecast precipitation and crop disease. We can also identify using the application of agriculture in satellite.

Then maximum crop yield while the reducing the energy consumption. Okay. Maximum crop we can find out while reducing the energy consumption when you apply the satellite agriculture application then avoid the worst of farm input suppose water fertilizer and pesticide suppose for your crop land don't need any kinds of fertilizer so then you can simply skip it you can easily don't need any kinds of irrigation then you can skip it so this type of wor of farm input we can easily identify using the help of remote sensing using

the help of satellite images. So for microp plant the water is needed or not. So for this for microp plant fertilizer is needed or not. So for this crop plant have any pesticides is need or not. So these type of things I can easily identify using the help of satellite or drone imagery for my agricultural land. I can easily identify and then application for agriculture and food security. So it's very important for the food security. So we can easily crop monitoring. Suppose we can different types of way for crop

monitoring. Suppose phenology then crop area crop type crop condition then yield then irrigated landscape then flood drought then frost accurate and timely reporting of agriculture statistics. We can easily get these type of things. Then prop forecasting, we can also forecast the prop. Suppose we can uh suppose you have some historical data of ground truth data for eel data. So this type of yield data we can easily use and further we can easily identify for the crop yield estimation. We can easily

identify for the future crop estimation. So in crop production and food supply per region and country we can easily identify for the crop forecasting. So this type of forecasting also show you that how we can easily predict for the crop yield prediction and then market stability suppose lowers uncertaintity and increase the transparency of global food supply reduce the price validated by the anticipating market trend with the reduce the uncertaintity. We can also get this type of idea. And then

humanitarian aid. So monitor the food security in high-risk region worldwide. Early warming of famine or enabling the timely mobilization of an international response in food aid. So this type of is very helpful of the application for agriculture and food security and biohysical characteristics drive from remote sensing. We can also get different types of biohysical characteristics. Suppose drive the biohysical characteristic of vegetation. Suppose chlorophyll content. Okay. So chlorophyll content is one kind of

biohysical characteristics of vegetation. Suppose if the chlorophyll content is high it means that vegetation is very good. If the chlorophyll content is low it means that vegetation is very low condition or vegetation health is not much good. So we can easily derive from biohysical charact characteristics of vegetation from the remote sensing data. Then we can also calculate the above ground biomass. Okay. So I'll show you that how we can easily compute the above ground biomass. Then uh lip area index. Okay. Leap area

index. So this is another way to identify chlorophyll content. Lip area index or above ground biomass. Lip area index. Basically it one side green leaf area per unit ground area in B lip canopies and half of the total need leaf surface area per unit ground area in the uh conifers canopies and then also photosynthetic primary production. Okay. So this is the measurement the how much carbon dioxide vegetation takes in during the photosynthetics minus how much carbon dioxide plant released during respiration. So this type of

photo photosynthetic primary production we can also compute using the remote sensing. Okay. And photosynthetic primary production it's basically measurement how much carbon dioxide vegetation take in during photosynthetic minus how how much carbon dioxide the plants release during the respiration. So this type of things we can easily monitor help of remote sensing. Okay. Then lip area index it's another application. So lip area index we can easily get the one side lip area per unit ground area. Okay. And also uh

chlorophyll content we can easily identify using the above ground biomass. And then we can also do this is another one it's called the fraction of absorbed photosynthetical activity radiation f. So basically it represent the ratio of solar radiation that is absorbed by vegetation okay for photosynthesis used for assessing the impact of the pro on vegetation. So we can easily identify the solar radiation okay how much solar radiation absorbed by vegetation using this um using this uh method it's called

the fraction of absorbed photosynthetical activity radiation. So using this radiation we can easily measurement how much solar radiation is absorbed by vegetation. Okay. So there are the lot of ways. So I will send you all of PDF then you can easily read it then you can get the lot of idea and further we just apply the practically. Then uh satellites and sensor for agriculture application. So there are lot of satellites are available. If you check suppose you can check the satellite. So this is the satellite.

This is the sensor. Land surface reflectance. Then evapo transpiration, land surface temperature, precipitation, soil meration greenness and structure. So basically if you check Terra it's one kind of satellite then Aqua then Somi NPP then AOA so landset 8 sentininal 2 L landset and sentinal 2 then international space station land data simulation system global precipitation measurement then chart soil moisture active active passive satellite sent one so this is the satellite okay and this type of sensor so this type of sensor if

you check modis then this is another modis then we Find the V then uh OI open land imager okay multisspectral instrument okay harmonized so different types of sensor we find out okay and if you check satellite product so this is the satellite product so we can easily find out the land surface reflectance transpiration land surface uh temperature precipitation okay so we can easily get the satellite product soil moisture then vegetation greenness then structure. So if you check we find out that one. So

basically land surface reflectance we can get from this type of sensor. So mod is then v o l i ms i s ls. So this type of sensor we can easily find out the lens surface reflectance are available. Okay. Evapo transpiration is available only for the two sensor modis and modis. Okay. as well as we also find out that you can see this is another one. So we also get the land data assimilation system. It also provide the above respiration. Okay. And also put the molded output. We can also find out that

uh transpiration and land surface temperature we find out from this sensor if you check. So first uh modis then modis bri oi. So this type of sensor provide the land surface temperature and precipitation. It's provide this type of sensor basically global precipitation measurement and also charts. So this type of sensor provide you the precipitation and soil moisture if you check. So basically this sensor and this sensor it provide the soil moisture satellite. Okay. Are we Yeah, please. >> But although

climate is one of the source of the the precipitation but I don't see climate. >> Okay. Terra climate it also provide the precipitation uh in this time it not showing in here I think some mistake for this in here. So it's also show the precipitation but the terra climate also or or bioclimate is also added. So this thing I need to also update it further as well as now embedding satellite image is also available for the alpha art model. So we also need to add this type of things then it also look more perfect but I

think it's a previous way. Then if you check the visual greenness so this type of sensor it provide the visual greenness and if you check the structure structure provide only for the one sensor it's called the sentinal one. Okay Sentinel one only provide the structure. So when you monitor the structure then we just use the signal one C band radar imagery we need to use. Okay. So this is the one kind of chart. So this chart help you this uh chart show you the all of scientific product. Okay. So which

sensor provide you the which data? Suppose you need the soil merch data. So we can simply check which sensor provide the soil merch data. You need the vegetation greenness data. So you can simply check which sensor or which satellite give you the vegetation greenness data. You need the precipitation data. So you can simply check which sensor or which satellite give you the precipitation data. So you can easily get the chart and this chart for we also need to update it because some new new satellite is also provide

the new new data. Then it look perfect. uh commonly this type of sensor we are just used for this type of land surface deflectance evapor transpiration land surface temperature precipitation soil moisture and visiting greenness and this type of product is very helpful to identify for the prop u monitoring or prop health monitoring it's very important to this type of sensor okay then land surface reflectance we already know about that so land surface reflectance basically it's provide an

estimate of the surface spectral reflectance. Okay. So it estimate the surface spectral reflectance as measured at the ground level by accounting for atmospheric effect like aerosol, escaping and thin cloud and useful for measuring the greenness of vegetation which can be used for the determining theological transmission dates including the start of the season, peak period and end of the season. So land surface reflectance. So now how I can check the land surface reflectance. So let's go try to check which satellite provide

this information. Land surface reflectance pro you can see the modice it provide we can also get the oi okay it also provide the land surface reflectance or MSI okay it provide so suppose I want to measurement for the land surface reflectance. So how I can do it? So it's very easy we can easily open the Google Earth engine and then practically we can identify. So I'll show the one example. So I say please search your land surface >> sirre increase the zoom level. Okay, understand.

>> Okay. So if you check uh we find out that uh land surface reflectance if you simply search. So then we find out all of data where we find out that estimated surface reflectance. we find out land surface phenological yearly global or you can see the surface reflectance daily. Okay, this is the surface reflectance. Okay, you can see the surface reflectance daily. Okay, and as well as you also get the some satellite imagery then alo you can see. Okay, so s u m i. So this is the another things we also get from the surface

reflectance. Suppose I want to use this data. Uh so this one I want to use. So this is the estimate the surface reflectance uncertinity we also get. So if you check the reflectance absorbed from the corresponding reflectance and that we find out in here. Okay. So reflectance one. So the different types of band if you check. So this is the reflectance absorbed from the corresponding reflectance scattering sitting and index one. So index two. So we try to use suppose this one reflectance just import.

So now you find out this type of data. So just I try to add without just map layer. trying to check for the global run. Okay. So we need to check. Okay. So we need to select the band then it will be shorted the data. So let me take a variable suppose uh data set then call the image collection and select the bands because there are the lot of data so that's why it not capacity I use this pre zero and paste and also filtering the data I put the filter date year of 2020 suppose 1st January year of 2020 December 31.

So now further I want to let me check the time period. This data set is available from 2020. Oh, sorry. 2024. uh we take a small study area. I think it's a take more time. So I simply choose a history area suppose I okay it's loading loading loading loading yes yes yes so let me okay suppose I take a study area suppose this is my study area so this is my study here. So for this area I need the data. So just simply use the filter bounds function. So in this time I not explain this type of function because you

already know about that uh how we can use this type of things. So just I simply filter down with my stud area and then I create that median composite and then click with my stud area suppose geometry. So now I display for my study area only for this study area. Okay, it's done. We find out this type of reflectance. So now if we try to add the color reflectance where is the high reflectance where is the low refence try to check it. So just simply take a plate suppose uh I want to show this type of

color for the low reflectance get show suppose this type of color get show this type of yellow color and high reflectance I show this type of red color just apply and also import the visualization. So now if you check we find out. >> Sure. >> Yeah please. Any question please? >> Yeah. Can you see my screen? >> Yeah. Can you see my screen? >> Network issue. your screen. >> Okay, just a minute. >> Okay. So, now can you see? Yeah. Let me leave when I return.

Yeah. Okay. It's okay now. Okay. So, let's go. Okay. Okay. So now can you see my Okay. Can you see my screen? Hello. Hello. Hello. >> Yes, sir. Yes, sir. >> Yes. So, that's okay. Yeah. >> Yes, sir. It's okay. My internet issues. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. So, we discuss about that uh reflectance. Okay. suppose surface reflectance and why it's uh very important for the agriculture monitoring we discuss about that. So basically uh surface reflectance this surface

reflectance uh it's the important very important in the prison agriculture because how much significant how much sunlight is reflected by the land surface at different wavelength. Okay, suppose for that uh we can easily find out the uh suppose high if you check. So this type of place we find out the high reflectance value. This type of place or some place red color is indicating about the very high. So this type of place we find out the high reflectance value but blue is indicating about the low

reflectance value. So surface reflector is one of the most important input in precision agriculture because it tells you how much sunlight how much sunlight is being reflected by the land surface at the different wavelength and who is directly related to the crop health soil condition and vegetation type. Okay. Suppose in this case uh we find out this type of place is the high reflectance. Okay. Suppose solar reflectance is very high. we find out this type of place and this type of place we find out the low

reflectance. So this is the radiation very high. So for this type of place is not possible to get the good crop. We don't find out the good crop for this type of place. But this type of place where we find out the low reflectance or we find out that um sun surface reflectance is not much high or sunlight is being reflected very low this type of place. So we can easily find out the very good vegetation for this type of place we find out. But red color it's indicating about the very high mass high

mass sunlight is absorbed. Suppose you already know about that arban heat island. So in the arvanit island what happened in the arbanite island in the arban suppose for the different types of construction different types of building it absorb the sunlight. It absorb the sunlight. So that's why we find out the Araban is very warmer than surrounding area. Suppose some place have a water body, some place have the vegetation. So this type of place low absorb the sunlight. Okay, not mass but urban

suppose buildup settlement construction or barren land. So this type of place it absorb the lot of sunlight. Okay. and day by day it increase and make the urbanitate island. But for the vegetation but uh water body so this type of feature is not much absorbed the high mass of uh sunlight is not absorbed this type of place so that's why we find out the um good vegetation this type of place suppose I practical example another one just a minute then you can get the get the concept so in this time we talk about

the surface reflectance surface reflectance So surface reflectance uh we find out and sur what is the surface reflectance? Surface reflectance basically sunlight is being reflected by the land surface at the different wavelength. Okay. And using the surface reflectance we can easily monitor crop health. Okay. Then we can also monitor soil condition. We can also monitor vegetation type. Okay. So here is the high veget good good vegetation low vegetation. So this type we can easily get the idea. So

based on surface reflectance surf surface reflectance data we can easily monitor this type of things crop health soil condition and vegetation type. And what is the surface reflectance? Surface reflectance is uh is mainly how much sunlight is being reflected how much sunlight is being reflected by different surface. Okay. So it's called the surface reflectance. So just I will show you one example using high resolution imagery. It's called the NA. It's only a available for the US. Okay. Because it's very high resolution

and it's called 0.6 m. Okay. High resolution imagery. It's only available for the US but not available for the all globally is not available. Okay. So I want to use this image and further I will show you the one practical example then you can easily get this concept reflectance how it will work. Okay. So just I import this image collection suppose I need this image for a specific boundary or a specific study area. Suppose I choose a crop plan. It's also more better. So let me find out

suppose this type of place is the prop plan I think yeah it's a prop plant so I take I need a data suppose this is my study area so for this study area I want to identify crop health okay so I simply draw my study area so this is my plan and I put the name suppose a y okay so now I want to filter this image collection for my study area. Suppose take a variable. Uh I put the variable name suppose image collection image collection. This image collection I do filter. So use the filter bounce function

with a then I put here uh filter filter. Suppose I put the filter date. Let me check the uh present time. It's available from 2002 to what is the last time? Last time 2023. Okay, I take the 2022. Suppose I take the image uh so 2022 January from year of 2020 to December 31. So I take this image. So now let's check how many images are available for this time. So just use the image function and use the size function. So now it's computing how many images are available. So you find out the four

image for my uh study area. So I used all of image and create the median composite. Okay. So now I just clip with my study area. So clip with my stud area is the AOI AOI and then I want to display. So just I simply display map dot add layer and call the image and run the code. Okay. So let's go what it's showing in here. So we find out this type of imagery. So this is the imagery. It's very high resolution. So that's why it look like that. And in this imagy so it show the I think

it show the natural color band combination. We can also change the band combination. So it show the red, green and blue. Suppose I show suppose in here uh near infrared then red and blue stressing just I create the false color composite then apply. So we find out this type of vegetation. So vegetation show has a red color. So if you check we find out this type of place is the better vegetation. But this type of place is there is no vegetation or there is is not cultivated or there is no anything. Okay, this type of

place, this type of land, this type of land. But from this image here, we find out this type of red color indicating about the better vegetation. Okay, so now what is the reflectance? Surface reflectance. Basically surface reflectance is the proportion of incoming solar radiation reflected from the surface and corrected for the atmospheric effect and why it matters in agriculture. basically healthy vegetation strongly in the near infrared and less in the red. So if you check suppose in this time healthy vegetation so in this

time healthy vegetation is strongly reflected near infrared. Okay. So I to show the near infrared band just I show the one band near infrared band and apply. So now if you check the result and also compare the result. So for that I simply opacity decrease the opacity. Okay just let me try to add the two layer. Suppose this is the layer for just I import this layer. This is the near infrared. I want to display only for the near infrared band. Okay, only for the near infrared band and I put it say n. Okay,

I want to display the another one. So just I put map add layer and call the image and run the code. So now I want to add this another layer. So this layer I suppose I to display the result. uh I put the suppose near in Fred then bread and glue stressing I keep 98%. and apply. So now if you check okay suppose I want to add I want to add the plated suppose low reflectance show the blue color g than high uh show the uh suppose green color greater than show suppose yellow color and high reflectance for near Infrared I show

suppose red color then apply. So now if you check the result and compare the result with the previous layer. So if you check so red for the near infrared it's indicating about that high reflectance. Okay, we find out the vegetation. This type of place is the vegetation and we find out the near infrared it it reflects high. We find out the high reflectance. So healthy vegetation reflect strongly in near infrared. Okay. So near infrared reflect strongly. So this type of place near infrared strongly find out because it's a healthy

vegetation. Okay. You can see the layer from here. So this is my healthy vegetation. this type of place is the healthy vegetation. So that's why I find out this type of red color and this red color if you check the result from near infrared. So this type of near infrared is strongly reflected. Okay, healthy crops reflect strongly in the near infrared band and less in the red band. So now let's check the another one red band. So I want to add the another suppose red band. So in this case we

find out the solution. Suppose we find out that nir this it strongly strongly reflected reflected by healthy healthy crop healthy crops. Okay. So we find out that near infrared is strongly reflected by healthy crops. Suppose where I find out the healthy vegetation, healthy crop, it it strongly reflected. But red what is the red band? Suppose for the red band red band for the red for the red band what happened for the red band it opposite less reflectance. Okay. So strongly a strongly less reflected reflected

by healthy vegetation healthy crops. I put the crops. Okay. So we find out that suppose if you check I already check the result. So near infrared band is strongly reflected. If you check the value suppose I to check the value. So this type of place I to check the value. So click on the tab and click it's a strongly reflected by near infrared. So just click. So now we find out that near infrared is 124. You can see very high. Okay. It's it's very high. Pixel value is very high. But on the other hand if you check

we find out the rate is very less only for 71. Okay. But near it show the 184 very high reflectance value. But for rate we find out only for the 71 very less very less. So that's thing we find out that option healthy vegetation or healthy crop always always for any study area healthy crops is strongly reflected high value high value for healthy vegetation for the near infrared and red band is strongly less reflected by the healthy vegetation and also check the value you can see find 184 184 for near infrared

band very high and on the other hand healthy vegetation show the very low less reflectance value red 71 okay and it means that stress vegetation okay so it show the stress vegetation suppose less value and so now suppose to check another suppose I click on here so it's it show the um not vegetation it's the low vegetation if you check the layer two so there is no vegetation there is no vegetation just click on here so now you can see find out that red is very high. So if the red is very high

and near infrared is very low then this type of place have the stress vegetation or low vegetation or this type of prop have the stress. Suppose in this case I just simply take this okay just I simply short my study area. I take only for the one land. Suppose I just take the only for the small land. Suppose this is my agricultural land or crop plant. So this is my agricultural land or cor plant. So I simply short as my area. Then I want to check only for this boundary. What happened? Suppose just I check suppose this is my

agricultural land. So for this land I want to check where I find out the healthy vegetation and where I find out the stress vegetation for this boundary only for this land. So just run the code and check what happened. So we find out this type of result. So this is my one land. So for this land I want to monitor stress vegetation and healthy vegetation. So now how I can check it just click on here just open the near infrared band and stressing suppose 98% I keep and then I add the plated suppose low

reflectance value I want to show as a uh blue color for low reflectance value then I just simply put here get then I put suppose this type of green color get then I want to show suppose this type of yellow color and high reflectance value I want to display as a red color. Okay, simply put red color. So red is indicating about the high reflectance value and high reflectance value indicating about the high good vegetation. Okay, so this type of red color indicating about the good vegetation area. Okay, this type of

place have the good vegetation. But if you check this type of green color or this type of place, this type of place, we find out the stress vegetation. It's not the good vegetation. Okay, also you can see this type of place. I think there is no vegetation. and show this type of low near infrared value. Okay. So now compare the result with this just I simply stressing and I want to add suppose near infrared then uh red and blue stressing and 8% I keep. So now if you check just uh apply. So now if you check the result so you

find out that this type of red color negative about the high or very good vegetation. Okay you can see this type of it is very good vegetation but it's not the vegetation. This type of is less vegetation. Okay suppose I just click on here and check the value. If you check we find out that near infrared is very high reflectance will find out. Okay 183 but rate is very low. But if I just click suppose this place I just click just I click on here then we find out the rate is very high. If you check red is very high 186 and

near is very low 163. Okay. So you always remember that for the reflectance value near infrared is strongly reflected by healthy crops and red is strongly less reflected by healthy crops. So from here we find out that if near infrared is high then it will be good crops. Okay. for healthy crops. Healthy crops. And if the red reflectance value if the reductance value is low then it's stress vitation. Okay. So we can get this type of things. So you can see we talk about the reflectance. We are just in our

satellite. Uh where is the my slide? Yeah, this is the cellite. So we just talk about the land surface reflectance. Okay. So how we can easily connect this land surface reflectance with our agriculture precision. Okay. So we just talk about that near infrared and red. So near infrared reflectance it provide the high value. Okay. for the good vegetation but rate for the good vegetation you find out the less value. Okay, this reflectance value not only for that if you check other satellite imagery suppose landset sentinel there

are the lot of band okay and every band have started different difference reflectance value suppose for the sentinel if you check we can easily get uh sentinel 2 it show the different types of bands B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 so different types of banded the different types of reflectance value surface reflectance value it is store it. So further we discuss about this type of things example. Okay. So now we talk about another topic uh suppose application in precision agriculture. Suppose we find out this type of neband.

So now I want to calculate the vegetation indexes. So vegetation health monitoring. So how I can monitor? Monitoring visitation health. >> Monitoring not monitoring. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So monitoring vegetation health. So there are the lot of way to identify vegetation health. So just we take the reflectance and check the veget visitation health. But it's also it's just reflectance. But I want to use some other method to monitoring vegetation health. So for that we can

use a one method. It's called the indexes. Suppose I create the NDVI. Okay. So it's one kind of visation index. So high value high value suppose I find out the high value high value high value it means that good vegetation good vegetation okay suppose low value it's called the stress stress vegetation vegetation so not only for that we already know lot index is available but in this case I show the example for that NDVI so now I want to compute the NDVI and I can easily check the high value

and low value and I can easily identify for the crop health okay so let's go try to identify so we just take a variable suppose I put the variable name is the NDVI and then I just call my image So I take a variable suppose uh and just put the image and I apply suppose normalize difference normalized difference between two band near infrared and red. Okay. So just to simply compare and show the result of map dot add layer and show the NDVI and run the code. So now show the NDVI map and high NDVI value indicating about

that good vegetation. Low NDVI indicating about the low vegetation or stress vegetation for our prop. So just click on here and I to place our stressing 98%. And I to show suppose stress vegetation this type of color get ad show this type of suppose uh all right I suppose uh suppose this type of okay java yellow color and wood show this type of green color this type of green color just apply so now you find out this type of if you check for this type of place you find out the yellow color so it's not the

good vegetation It's a stress vegetation you find out this type of place and sometimes suppose I think it's a water body for this. So that's why you find out this type of water in here. So now you find out this is the where we find out the high vegetation low vegetation you can easily get this idea and from here you can easily get where is the find out the good vegetation where you find out the low vegetation. So this type of place if you check the value just click on here we find out you can see near infrared it

show very high so red is very high means that it's not the good vegetation okay so you find out if you check 0.1 value okay 0.1 stress vegetation but if you check suppose this type of place it show very high NDVI value if you check 0.4 okay 0.4 four and if you check suppose this type of place uh it's a water body it show the negative result you can see the negative okay in this time if you check R is very high value okay I reflectance R is very high and we find out you can see the green and barland is

also blue is also high okay so green is uh always green is high reflectance of water body okay you always remember that green green band is high reflectance of water body Always we find out the high repetance value for the waterboard. Okay. So we find out this type of place look like that sir. >> Yeah please. >> This all procedure for monitoring now the heads of education using the NDPI theance can also be done using the the UAP imager the drone. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So I'll show

you that also. Suppose if you check uh where is our drone image? Yeah. So this is our one kind of drone imagery. Okay. So if you check this drone imagery uh I want to monitor suppose uh NDVI. Okay. Or if you check the imagery click on here and we also find out B1 B2 B3 B4. Okay. B1 B2 B3 B4. B1 B2 B3 B4. So now I want to check the reflectance value. Suppose I just click on the inspector tab and click on the vegetation. Okay. So now if you check which band show the high value. Okay. Suppose it show that

B4 is the high value. So B4 is the near infrared. Okay. And B1 is the red. Okay. So how I can get the idea? Because for the vegetation for the vegetation near infrared band is show the high reflectance value and red band show the low reflectance value for the vegetation area. Click on here again you can check the another example. So you find out okay so near infrared show the high and B1 it's a rate it show the low reflectance value. So now I can simply apply suppose I to display suppose I want to display only for that

near infrared. So click on here so near infrared is the before I stressing suppose 98%. and apply. So it look this type of color but I want to add the plated because it's a okay so I put the tracing suppose three sigma okay just a minute I think there visual need to add the reflectance value okay for okay so it already calculated that for this minimum and maximum reflectance value okay for this place minimum and maximum replace value you need to calculate because it's not the satellite imagery it's a drone imagery

so that's why I need to calculate the minimum and maximum value so B1 mean and B calculate about that so it computed the value okay just and now okay so let me check now click on this is the NDVI map we computed so just keep image So I want to put the B before and apply or B1 >> normally. >> Okay. Show the B1 >> normally. Okay. >> Normally I see the drone image has only three bands but this one has four bands. >> Four bands. Okay. >> Yeah. So they also use here um another

band. and they also need to create okay and we can also uh draw draw an image which we also need to uh pre-process using the metaphase or also different types of software or tool we need to use to uh create this type of band yeah >> we we also cover this >> yeah I also try to show you that also how we can easily create this type of band okay it also showing But I think B3 is also showing but near infrared band is not showing in here. You can see we also find out the B1, B2, B3. But when I display the B4 near

infrared band because it's created, >> it's created by using this using this three band it created the B before reflecting. So that's why I think it's not display. But we also display that others. But when they compute the NDVI if you check uh for the NDVI uh they use at the B4 and B3. Okay, B4 is the near infinite and B3 is the rate. I think they're also mentioned in here. But if you just put here the B1 then check what happen B1 and run the code because B1 is show the low reflectance

value for vegetation. I sir >> yeah please. >> I think because this this drone image normally may be taken by using multisspectral multisspectral sensor which shows red and blue. >> But if we use that ther including the the near infrared and thermal bench we we will have multiple bench more than read. >> Yes. So if you check suppose click on here and click. Okay. So near show the high value. Okay. Red it show that this type of find out in here and B2 is the low. If you check B3 is

the low you can see. Okay. Suppose in this case they are mainly classified sugar can area. Okay. If you check uh for the sugar can area they compute the value. Suppose uh this is the sugar can field area. So this type of place have the sugar can field area. Okay. This is the ground root data. They make the digitize and further from the sugar can they compute the reflectance value. If you check click on here then we find out the result for sugar can area. For the sugar can area we find out the high value is

the B4 and low value is the B3. Okay. So that's the region it use at the B3 in this place. Okay, because before is the high because they their main target is for the sugar can they also identify. So this is the ground truth data. So now for the ground truth data they are check the reflectance value. Okay. So what the reflectance value? So you find out that high reflectance value is the near infrared B4 and low is that B3. So that the reason they compute the NDVI using this B4 and B3. Okay. and they get this

type of NDV and further they are make the classification so I'll show you that later how we can easily do it and now apply right so it show suppose it's uh it's not only for the sugar can area it also have some trees if you check we find out this type of trees or forest okay so we need to work with the sugar can. So this type of place is sugar can. It's a forest or trees. Okay. It's a trees. Okay. So we can also monitor these type of things and not only for the NDVI we can also use suppose EVI.

So when you apply the EVI. Okay. So EVI for high high biomass biomass props. Okay. So you just simply apply the EVI where is the high biomass prop we find out. So we try to apply the EVI or dense area. Okay. Dense area. So I think in this time when you apply the EVI then we find out the more better result. Okay. So when you apply the EVI so you also try to apply the EVI. Okay. Just apply and then check the result. So I put this assignment regarding this topic. So you also try to create the EVI and then check the result also about

that. Right. as well as you also use another one. So it's called the ND suppose ND dr NDE it's mainly used for for nitrogen status monitoring for nitrogen status monitoring okay suppose ND so I simply search on the Google and check the formula So it's called the uh the normalized different red edge. Okay. Is a metric that can use to analyze the whether multispical image uh contain the healthy vegetation by measuring the amount of the profiling plant. So we also try to apply this normalized difference red S

and there lot of application if you check this is the formula okay so you can also apply for the sentinel 2 also okay for that and it's the metric that can use multisspectral imagery healthy vegetation by the measuring the amount of the chlorophyll in plants okay how much chlorophyll is available in the plants so we can also use this n r nd and monitors the blunt. Okay, it calculate the near infrared and rad spectral bands. So red band is only a available for the sentinel 2. Okay, red band is only available for the sentinel

2. So that's the region. We also use the red for the sentinal 2. So we also try to compute using the sentinel 2 and check the result for any crop land any crop plant or any crop field. He also try to apply the signal to and compute this equation. This equation is that ND RV E. Okay. And this ND is also help you to identify for nitrogen status monitoring. Suppose high value high NDR value is indicating about the high nitrogen status and low ND value. So the low nitrogen status monitoring we also use

this type of equation basically it's identify the chlorophyll chlorophyll content on your vegetation or chlorop plant this equation. So you also try to compute this and we can easily identify a stress area using this way. Okay. Suppose guide irrigation or detect the pest or diseases early. Suppose we find out this type of place is the low this type of place it show the this type of color it means that this veget is not is not good. So this place what happened for the stress water or we find out that

suppose some detect the paste okay or guide irrigation. So this type of place we need to provide the water then it will be work mass well we find out the well vegetation. Okay. So this is the way. So I will try to show you the rollup step by step then you can get the idea. as well as we can also use for the prop type mapping. Okay. So this is the one kind of example for prop type mapping if you check uh for the drone imagery. So for the drone imagery we try to identify for the sugar can area. So what I need

suppose for the sugar can area I simply take this type of place is the sugar can from my drone imagery. from my drawing imagery I simply take this is the sugar can this is the sugar can this is the sugar can so this is my training sample so after that we are just applying the machine learning just applying the machine learning model so if you check in this time we are just applying the machine learning model for uh random forest okay random forest machine learning simply apply and for we can simply spill the data set uh 75% about

train and 25% for the testing so Same process for the land use land cover class I discuss about that same process just apply but in this case we find out the more better result because it's a drone imagery okay so this is the random forest this type of red color indicating about the sugar can area not only for we also calculate the area so if you check the area how much area for the sugar can how much area forest okay so just we take the only for the sugar can we take all of you sugar can forest build up barrel land. We take

all of classes and make the classification. So then we can easily make the uh crop type mapping also. So I also send you this porting also try same process okay for the land use land cover but in this case we are just using the drone imagery. Okay and drone imagery give you the more better result than spectral imagery. Okay. And then uh yeah please can can I see how now you you have merged those grounding data and the training data. >> Which one? So this is sugar can >> you have this is sugar cane you have the

ground truthing before before training the class of in your code there okay you can check >> yes I think you had a ground truthing data for sugar cane is it or you >> okay so it's ground is not need because it's very high resolution we can simply zoom and we can easily You can see them on the image. >> Yeah, we can easily get the image because it's a drone drone imagery. >> Okay. But you trend them by using the polygon not your point as we know. >> Yeah. Yeah. We take the polygon. We take

the polygon. >> Okay. >> For the build up. So and drone imagery we can easily classify it because it's high resolution. Okay. We can easily identify this is the sugar can. So that's why we are just take the poly. I I one one day I tried to to add drone image in the Google engine but it comes with only the one because of maybe it has it occupying a large space. >> Okay. So this drone image basically this drone image uh do you pre-process or not? >> Yes I didn't pre-process.

>> Okay. We need to pre-process this drone image first. Okay. Suppose uh egg is soft. So I'll show you the suppose a drawn image suppose a drawn image pre-processing. So already you can check the lot of availables how we can easily pre-process this type of drone imagery as well as we also get so >> I know they are I know the software >> theoft shape >> yeah we can also use this type of things to uh make the drone imagery in into the uh we can add some different types of pen we create and further we

can also use it and Now also some AI is also available. So to create this type of drone imagery so which soft can I use to process so that those image can images can be added in the Google engine. So eggy soap you can also use. >> I normally use soap in making the alo also also also photo to make the 3D. >> Okay. I think it also helpful for the lighter data also. >> Yeah. We normally use objective to to combine the drone image which have over overlapped to create the the auto photo

so that we can we can we can extract maybe the dual model resolution extract some of the features to create maybe a top of >> so we can for that we can use some suppose commercial software is available as well as also some opensource software is also available Okay. Suppose for the commercial software you can also use the pix 4D suppose pix 4D mapper. So pix 4D mapper. So it's one kind of commercial software. We also use it to create it's a commercial software. Yeah. >> Yes. I know also

but my questions is >> yeah please >> before my question is before adding the the the drone image in Google engine you have said you have to pre-process >> yes yes yes >> yes yes yes >> so I I pre-process that drone image to to reduce because pre-processing it is normally you have to reduce some errors so before using the image what error Am I going to use in drawn image while the drone image I already complete? So basically we need to take the drawing image further we need to preprocess to

make the tip format make the bands different types of bands basically any image we find out the B1 B2 and B3 okay normally any imagery but further we need to this type of imagery we need to suppose geio referenced if you check now this drone imagery is also geio referenced okay as well as this drone imagery have this type of band so this type of things we need to do using this type of software here. Okay. Suppose you can see it's it's it's also geio reference also this type of imagery. So

normally draw imagery it's not repro uh we need to repro geor reference again. Okay and further we can easily use it. Suppose you can see this place is the geio reference. So then we can easily just overlay we can easily get the better map. Okay. So I'll send you some sources how we can easily make the pre-process the drone imagery. You also try to follow it then I hope it will also work. No problem. Okay. Okay. And if now time will allow on the next coming lecture coming plus you can try to to to instruct me on how

to process the drone image before >> importing them the Google. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. >> But also will send me those those books and to to check. >> Okay. Okay. So then suppose as well as if you check uh nutrient and water detection suppose how I can do it for that nutrient nutrient and water stress stressed uh detection detection So in this case we can simply remember that low nir low nir and higher rate. Okay suppose low near infrared band reflectance value and higher rate

reflectance value indicate the water stress or nutrient deficiency. Okay, it's indicating indicating water stress or or nutrient nutrient efficient defense e deficiency efficiency. So now by monitoring the change over time and farmers can uh apply the variable rate fertilization and adjust the uh adjust the your uh schedule. Okay. Suppose if you check for this land fire is the low n which suppose just I open the n and then apply. Suppose I put the plated. Suppose I want to show the high low

value. I to show this type of blue color. This type of blue color. Suppose get to show this type of yellow color. Get show this type of red color and get high. I show the vegetation. So now you can easily get the stress visitation. So if you check suppose if you check this type of place we find out the stress vegetation. Okay. And this type of vegetation is not good. This type of place this is not good. Also you can see this type of place vegetation is not good because due to the deficiency of nutrient or uh or water stress

in this type of place >> water stress in the plant not soil is it plant. Plant. Yeah. plant we talk about the prop crop. >> Okay. >> Yes. Yes. >> Props. So now you find out this type of place if you check. So further uh we can simply take the schedule. So basically if you get the lower in air value and higher rate indicating about the water and nutrient deficiency of crops. So I see we put the crops crops. So now we can easily get the idea from here. Okay. So where I need to the

irrigation or where I need to apply the uh fertilizer okay due to the nutrient deficiency we can easily get it as well as we can also have the soil property so we talk about the further class how we can apply the soil property and we can also correlate the eel prediction also no problem okay so I hope you also get the idea so just we talk about in our slide Suppose we are just how we can easily apply the reflectance value. Okay. So not only for that there are the lot of land surface reflectance we can also

find out suppose you can modice aqua. Okay. Then Somi NPP landset sentinel. So different types of bands are available. So this type of band we simply correlate with the agriculture. So you have to write all of those you can l the reflectance okay how it will be work and which indexes provide you the which information you also get the idea from here and also modis provide you which product we also check in here. Okay. But someh provides surface effects but it does not have near infrared maybe bending red

bendy or green bending >> you can't get bend is it >> no basically it also provide another types of reflectance band for the modis Okay. >> Okay. >> It provide another types of band. So within we also need to use the different uh application for the modis as well as modis also provide some ready product suppose land surface temperature vegetation indexes suppose modis ndvi modis evvi as well evapo transpiration or primary production okay or vegetation continuous field or burn area. So this

type of things we can simply correlate with the agriculture and further we also do this different types of application we can also do using this way okay as well as you can see I also add all of satellite imagery okay so I also send you this slide you also try to read the full slide then you can get the lot of idea which sensor or which satellite provide you which information you can easily get and how we can easily connect this type of sensor in our agriculture application. Okay, you can see the evopo

transpiration and how to correlate theopo transpiration with the agriculture. Okay. So if the above port transplant is the high then what happened for the agricultural land okay then satellite and sensor eco okay so it's very long slide so I also send you this slide you also like to read it all of data data about the sensor then how to pre precipitation is influence the agricultural land different types of satellite for agricultural precipitation suppose global precipitation system or satellite

or chart satellite imagery then alo soil moisture it's very important indicator for your agriculture position for the soil moisture okay because depend on the soil moisture we need to uh provide the water irrigation or not okay so different types of things we try to add in here. Then NDV application, carbon monitoring, lip index. So further step by step I try to explain all of those then you can easily get the idea. Then how to apply the S data mill data in the agriculture monitoring then land cover mapping and optical

versus radar. Okay. Huh? >> Yes, please. >> Can we make the land you can use land cover map using one? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. >> Is it possible? >> Yeah, it also possible. And I already published a video in my YouTube channel about that. You also follow that. Just I show you that. Simply search here uh sentinel one lc then you can easily get this video. You can also try to follow the video s imagery how to make the land use land cover classification because s imagery

is very helpful for that uh when you work with cloudy region. Okay we can we can easily get the better satellite imagery and we can easily apply this type of things method no problem easily. But but it they say it is said that it is difficult to to interpret the r image visually. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So further need to apply a different technique to identify and we can also combine the radar image with the multisspectral imagery. Okay. Then we detect the some training sample. >> Okay.

>> Then we just simply apply the >> so we will cover this training. >> Yeah. I also cover no problem. I'll show the process because we also basically all of sensor uh in our slide all of sensor I try to complete if you check uh this slide so all of those I try to complain and show the example cellular one is very important for agriculture for structure suppose different types of prop structure we can also get from here also

Class 16

Hi, good evening. Can you hear me? Yeah, good evening. Yeah. How are you? I'm doing good. How about you, sir? Yeah, alhamdulillah. I'm fine, thank you. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So I already developed your code for above ground biomass estimation and I also try to add also correlation with bioclimatic variable. Okay. So let me share my screen and then show you all of details step by step. So just a minute. Okay. Can you see my screen? Not yet. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So Okay. So this one in this code I try to okay first of all

I try to show you that okay so this is the output or result. So in this time first of all uh this is our variable importance for random forest model. So we can easily find out this type of chart variable importance from random forest and then we calculated that root mean square error. Okay mainly our ground data and also satellite data above ground biomass. Okay just comparison and we find out the root mean square value. This type of value we find out and then mean absolute error we find out and also calculate the R square

value. Okay, basically between the above ground biomass between uh ground bio uh ground data and also satellite satellite based data. Okay, after that we make the correlation suppose correlation between above ground biomass and bioclalic variable 01. Okay. So then we find out this type of result also you can see uh it's a pearson correlation. Okay. Then with this type of things we also display as a chart and then it look more better. But but this is the statistical value for correlation between above ground

biomass and bioclimatic four. Then correlation between above ground biom and and five then six. Okay. Then 8 then 12. Okay. Then 13 then 14 then 15 then 18. And this thing we also try to develop as a chart. Okay. Bioclimatic variable. and uh and and also above ground biomass. Okay, we create this type of chart. So we can also add this type of chart in your paper and in this time it's not the proper way when you you want to make the chart for your paper then we try to use this type of chart okay this type of chart so for

that I also try to develop this code using python also okay because this type of chart we can easily display okay so it's it's a more appropriate uh for your paper okay so bioclimatic variable for so different different variable by one and then four then five then six and then we just check the correlation with our uh data above ground biomass and we find out this type of chart. Okay. So this basically this is similar chart. This type of is a similar chart but Python we can easily uh get this type of

chart all of chart at the same time we just make the one frame. Okay. So then okay so I have a question. Yeah please. So uh about the correlation is not possible to display it like a a map map. Yeah. So we can also display the heat map also. Okay. So if you check okay the heat map okay yeah correlation heat map uh between between between above ground biomass and bioclimatic variable. So we can display the result this type of heat map and we can easily represent okay this type of heat map in our paper for the correlation okay where

is the high correlation where is the low correlation this is the reason about the for this heat map okay we can easily represent this type of things and this chart we can also add in our paper also and we can represent all of uh bioclimatic variable and above ground biomass uh in is just correlation heat map we represent okay this type of paper. Okay. Then uh then this is another thing. So basically uh okay so this one okay let me show you that just open. Okay. So this value above ground biomass

and also others. So it's one kind of heat map. Okay. But in this time in Google Earth engine you find out this type of heat map without listen without color. So these things further we try to develop using this way. Okay. to adding the list and other things. Okay. And uh if you check uh if you check uh so in this time variable uh in our features we just use okay. So in this time we also consider also about that our bioclimatic all of variable we also struck the pixel. Okay. If you want you don't need this type of

things as a training sample then you simply just run the code without this type of bioclimatic variable. So if you check uh I also add in here this one. Yeah. Yeah. This one you can see I also add this type of bioclimatic variables as a features. Okay. So this features mainly all of basically I don't need it for the yeah then we just simply remove this thing if not need suppose just simply uh remove from here you can see add bands so just I simply comment this things okay bio variable I simply remove so

just I simply add this type of index which you already send me okay and also combine with the single one so just I simply remove these things and further just I simply remove this type of uh this type of bend because I want to train my model only use of sentinel 2 and sentel one data okay so then bioclimatic variable don't need just I remove it's not need okay and further we just simply work it's not problem okay so now I try to explain the full code step by step then you can get the idea

so first of all uh this is your training sample okay which is stored the ground biomass and then we try to maxing the function for cloud maxing and removing the cloud. This is the function about that and we computed NDVI okay EVI and then we try to use at the 2 collection okay then simply this function is simply connect with our collection and also collect the connection with the cloud marks function okay and then we just simply uh select all of bands okay together after that we just uh extra vegetation index is also add in here

suppose T and DVI okay so for the T and DVI we are just use this equation for T and DVI and also calculate STVI 1, STVI 2, STVI3. Okay. So which type of index you add? I also try to add this type of things. And then for the biohysical product we also use the leaf area index. Okay. So leaf area index we are just use this data set. So if you did simply copy and just simply search here then you can get all of details about the data source. Okay. This data set we are just use for the leaf area index to get the

data leaf area index. So then you when you write your paper then you also try to check the data source other thing just simply check this way and also you can see this is another one. So from here we take the another. So this is the another basically it's called the uh for let me show you that just simply copy go to the catalog. Yeah. And then we can easily find out this data set information. So basically this one is the fraction of absorbed photosynthetic active radiation. So this this data we

collect from here. Okay. So you also mentioned about this data set also. Then this is the uh forest cover percent. Okay. So this is the forest cover forest cover. So this data are just used for the forest cover percentage. We also simply check the data all of information about the forest cover um percent. Okay. % click cover and then sle one data we are just use and we calculate the P minus VV and VB plus V simply do it and connect with our image collection and for the bioclimatic variable we are just use this data it

also available in the Google Earth engine so you simply uh use this bioclimatic variable so in the variable you can easily find out all of B10 okay so annual mean temperature all of those you can easily get from here all of so just simply we make the and clip with your study area and then we simply just normalize this type of scale. Basically this type of value we are just simply multiply with our bands then it will be normalized some some uh so it all all band will be in the resolution 10 m right yes yes yes when you multiply by

0.1 so this one is the scale value if you check I'll show you that so in this time you also find out the scale value you can see 0.1 okay so in Google Earth engine uh it mainly for you the result digital number. So when I multiply this value 0.1 or scale value then it show some you can sum it show the zero. So you don't need for this type of things if not need. Okay. So you can see some the 0.001. Okay. So which band which scale just simply multiply. So when you multiply then it show the appropriate

pixel value. Okay. We find out the appropriate pixel value. So that's why they also provide this type of scale. Okay. So then we simply use this type of scale. Okay, where we need then we simply multiply. So then we find out the appropriate pixel value this type of bioclimatic variables and further simply combined all of those. Okay. So in this time I am not using the bioclimatic variable. So that's why simply comment but if you want you can also extract the pixel blue then simply uncomment and then also use

it. No problem. And then we simply apply the same process for uh random forest. Uh for that we simply com uh extract the data basically we extract the training sample. Uh for that uh this is our this column. Basically this is the column for your shape file. Okay. In the shape file we have a column it all of ground truth data. So we are just use it as a properties and further we simply distribute the data. Okay. 70% and 30% training and testing and then we also check the how much training sample how

much testing sample also print in here. So then we simply make the features okay and then we put here the random forest um algorithm we apply the regression model and then we simply explain about our model. So here we find out that all of those okay so all of those can easily find out in here. Sorry sir I have a question. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think last time in my methodology you have to stack all images something one two vegetation indices and biohysical indices and after that you have to extract the pixels

values and associate it with the ground truth I did not see that I don't know it's ahead or okay so now we are just use this type of bands. Okay. So basically we already combined we already make the combined image. If you check in this variable we combined okay we just combine sentel 2 sentinal one. Okay so for the sentinal two all of bands we just combine in here. Not only for that uh this sentinel 2 as well as we also create some other index. Okay. So this type of index we also add. Okay. As well as we also add

for sent one and create the combined image. So we extract the pixel value from this combined image which have all of bands or all of index available. So this combined variable we are just use and extract the uh training um pixel value for our chroma. Okay. So then we simply do it. Uh so these are features we apply the regression. So now this importance we also find out this type of importance but this thing we also just uh make a chart. Okay. So for that we are just use the code and we find out uh

this type of chart. Okay. Correct. Okay. This type of chart. So in this time it also show about the bio four or three because previous added. So when you run it then this bioclimatic variable is removed. Then we find out only for those no problem. Okay. Then uh okay. So then we just combine just we simply call the combine image and connect with our model. Okay. RF model which I already created the random forest model and I rename it as a this. So now it represent this type of map. We find out this type

of uh above ground biomass map and then for the accuracy we are just use the this type of accuracy root mean square error or also calculate about the mean absolute error and also calculated the uh your R square value just for the checking the accuracy. Okay. And finally for correlation for the correlation we are just sorry for the accuracy. Last time you send me a screenshot the R square were very close to one. I don't know it's okay. So in this time you also add the other parameter also because

other bioclalic variable also added. So that's why it look like that. So when I run then it also work no problem. So in this time this result show when I added so if you check now it show about the bioclimatic variable also this uh so that's why it look like that okay so just when you remove and then then you'll find out the accurate result no problem okay so now we are just make the correlation so in this time we are just make the correlation mainly we are just check the pearson correlation okay

Pearson correlation so if the r value uh is the negative it indicating about the uh is the negative correlation okay suppose AB if the above ground is high then bioclimmetic variables are low. Okay. So suppose then if the positive value we find out the R value is the positive it indicating about the positive correlation or proportion. Okay. Or not opposite. Suppose if the above ground is high then also climatic variable is also high value. we find out for the positive correlation and if the R value is equal to zero it means that

there is no correlation neutral. Okay. So just we are use the code. So first of all simply add all of correlation then we simply just also for our uh first of all we just um calculate the value for each correlation. Okay negative correlation negative we find out also you can see also okay we find out the positive correlation for above ground biomass. Okay, we can find out the positive correlation. It's a negative correlation. Okay, find out the positive correlation. It's a negative correlation. Okay, it's a positive

correlation. And finally, this type of chart we are a scatter chart. A scatter chart for each bioclimatic variable, we are just represent. Okay, so this column show about the above ground bio mask. It show the bioclimatic pixel value. So then we represent. So these things we also just for the proper way we are just uh use this Python code. Okay. uh we just create this type of things to represent all of things. So now how how I can create I also explain about that. So in this time we are just simply

import all of Python library and then we simply import our data. Okay. Training data. Training data basically in this training data it store it all of index value. All of bands value. Okay. All of bands value and also have our ground truth value. Okay. You can see it's a ground truth value. It's come from our ground truth value and all of uh pixel value for B12 all of bands as well as all also bioclimatic variable. Okay. All of those okay for our specific coordinate or training sample. So this

is our training data. So this data I want to set with random forest uh regression and also scalan model for selection and also I also apply the scalan matrix to check the mean square or r square so these type of things. Please sir I forgot to ask you if it was poss maybe to record our missing so that later I can review it if I miss something. Okay. Okay. You can try to record it please. Okay. Okay. Okay. So now we find out this type of things. Uh and then we just simply make the features and target and then we

apply the um regression. Okay. And then we create the importance variable importance. Okay. So in this time it also adding the bioclimatic variable also. Okay. Because in this time we just check the correlation with bioclimatic. So just I add in my CSV file. CSV file add add all of those all of those uh bands also. Okay. And then we check the I can see we find out this type of value for R² and also RMS value. So basically it's including all of bands uh your bioclimatic variable also including all

of those. Okay. And then uh okay so now only for bioclimatic variable we work because we just make the correlation for the bioclimatic variable. So just I simply uh put all of bioclimatic variable column name and then simply connect with my uh basically we just apply the uh pair plot function it's come from the CNS this pair plot function we it easily provide you that scatter chart okay this type of scatter chart so you can see by 1 by4 so all of bioclimatic variable we can easily find out and this type of chart have a value

so this value we can get from here uh get from our Google Earth engine uh because I already calculate the value. You can see this type of value we can easily get from the Google Earth engine for each bioclimatic variable with the above ground biomass and then we are just make the correlation heat map. So now we can easily identify uh for which climatic variable is the high uh correlation where is the low correlation we can easily find out and also display the value. So this is the legend about the legend.

Okay. And this is the bioclimatic variable for each bioclimatic variable. Okay. So this is the full work for you. Okay. So I also send you this uh code link also and also send you this code link. Okay. And we can also download the data geot file format data. Okay. From here and further we can easily make the map or other things using here. No problem. Okay. Okay. So uh you still using the okay the composite image right? Yes yes yes. So did you try as I said like seasonal uh yeah for the seasonal yeah

if you want you can simply change the season suppose year of 2020. Okay tell me about your season then we just put the season [Music] from uh uh April to October fourth. Okay. Four four to 10 uh 10. Yeah. Okay. And also for sentinel 4 to 10. Yeah. And Okay. And also others this type of same. Okay. Because four to 10. 4 to 10.

Class 17

Hello everyone, welcome to the study hacks institute of GIS and remote sensing. Hope you are well. Today I discuss a very important topic mainly how we can easily use the transformer based with yield prediction model using pytors. So I will try to explain all of details step by step. I will try to explain then I hope you can easily get the idea and further you can easily work with that. So in this case we are just use different types of uh parameter as a features. So in this case I try to use for NDVI

mainly for signal 2 landset 8 and modice. So then also use the charts mainly precipitation data. Then we also use for the temperature data and also use the soil moisture data. Okay. And then we also have this type of eel data. EL data basically this type of yield. So now I have this type of data. So this data we need to also create it. Okay. So how I can create it? So uh for this we can easily use this type of training sample if you check. So we just use the Google Earth engine. So basically in

this time it's one kind of prop prediction. But in this case we are just use the machine learning. But if you want you can also get the more advanced result when you are using at the deep learning. So this type of same data you also use in here. So this is my study area. So for this study area I have this type of training point. Basically this type of point I have the uh eel data. Okay this type of place. So now I want to use this type of yield data and then I just create the transformer based with

yield prediction model using pytors mainly deep learning which I apply in here. So this type of point I already have and I already have this type of value for yield value. Okay. So now for this point I just need to extract this type of information. So I need to extract the information for NDVI value then charts mainly precipitation value then temperature value and also soil moisture value. So for that we are just use the Google Earth engine. So in the Google Earth engine we try to combine all of those NDVI from Sinel to

satellite imagery NDVI from Lancet NDVI mod then precipitation then temperature and soil moisture. Then we download the data as a CSV file format. Okay, this data is simply downloaded as a CSV file format. Okay, so then we are just use this CSV file in here. So this is my CSV file. This CSV file I simply import in the Google Collab and then I find out this type of result. So in this time we find out this type of value for each crop yield point. We find out this type of result and before that I also

imported some necessary library such as pandas then pros then this type of scalan model. So all of necessary libraries simply imported and this is my uh sample okay sample data for the crop yield. So for this training sample I already struck this type of information land set NDVI modus NDVI precipitation then NDVI from sentinel 2 then soil moisture and I have also ground truth data for probe eel data okay we find out so this is my data set so then we try to apply the drop geometry column if exist so then we try

to simply ignore and then feature so in this time this type this column I just make a list of features and this is my target. Okay. So we are simply create the two list. One is for features. In the feature we try to add all of um features. So if you want you can also add the more features to get the more better result. And then our target value basically yield because we want to predict for yield. Then remove all of null values. So just simply tf and then simply just uh take the float 32 and reshape it one array. So then normalize

the feature just we use the standard scaler and normalize and fit with the transform using the scalar value and reshape for the transform sample we try to reshape it and then spill the data uh x train x test and y train and y test just simply split and we are just using the 80% data for train our model and 20% data just check for our accuracy then convert to tr tensor so for that just simply call this pro I already imported this library and then use the tensor function. Then X train, X test, Y train

and Y test just we simply convert to cross tensors and then we create the transformerbased regression model. So this is the model for the transformerbased regression model. So in this model we just created and then this model is simply connect with our training data set 80% training data set and in this case we create the model and use the Adam optimizer okay and also called the pro or Adam optimizer we try to apply in here and then we are just create the uh loop for 100 time we create this type of uh epoch we create

10 20 30 40 50 60 80 90 and 100 we create and also estimate the loss okay and then evaluate this model. Okay. So then we try to check the root mean square error and also create the R squar score. We find out from here and finally we create the plot for that actual yield value and predicted it value. So we find out this type of valency this is the actual yield value it's collecting from our um ground data and predicted value. So it's come from the prediction result. Okay. And we find out this type of graph

or line we find out in here. So this is the transformer weight ill prediction graph we also find out. So now we try to visualize our imagery. Okay. So for that we need to import the rastero then pro then cross skit learn and m plot li this type of necessary library simply imported or install it then imported this type of library and now we load the uh imagery. Basically it's a combined imagery. Okay this combined imagery basically it's come from our Google Earth engine. So this combined imagery

uh we you can see this is the combined so it including all of those all of uh imagery such as NDVI mod NDVI senel to NDVI precipitation temperature so merure so this combined imagery we simply export as a geotip file format and then import it in the Google collab okay then we simply reshape it and also transpose basically a height width and band and replace the field values with infill with non non values and F and drop about the reshape it. Okay. And finally standard using the scalar as a training.

So just simply scalar standard scaler and reshape for the transformer. Just use the code for reshape for transformer. And finally we import the tr for the e transformer model we created. And this model is save. Okay. And I put the name. This is the this model is simply save using this name. And further we simply define the model architecture exactly the same as before. So just we simply put here the five because in this case I just use the five features. So that's why I simply put here the five and then we find out this

type of model and then this model we just use the u best size put in define the 100. Okay. So sometime if it the crashing then we try to increasing or decreasing this value otherwise it also okay there is no problem and further we just evaluate the show the uh reconstruct the full imagery for our output imagery. So we put this type of output about the imagery. And finally we download this imagery. If you want download the geot file format as well as if you want you can also display this type of map using the rasterio package.

So we find out this type of map. So this is the crop yield prediction map we find out in here. So turns per hectare unit. So we can easily identify you can also use the different types of color or if you want you can also download is a geot file format and for that you can also use it in dark map or QS software for making the map. So this is the way for the u transformer based weight yield prediction we can easily use. If you want you can also add here the more further u features then it will look

more better. Okay. So if you have any question or any doubt you can simply contact I also give the answer about that. So today is no more. Thank you for watching that. Stay happy stay safe.

Class 18

Hello. Hello. Hello. Okay. Okay. Will your friend also join or not? Yes. Yes, he will join. Okay. Okay. We're ready. Okay. Okay. So he also joined. So let's go try to discuss about the topic. So he's I already developed. So I will show you the result and also explain how I can do. Okay. So let me share my screen. Okay. Hello doctor. Yeah. Hi. Okay. Can you see my screen? Yes. So here I develop one 2 3 4 5 6 7 total seven code for your study area. So let's one by one we try to discuss. So first

of all I start from here. So in this code okay I'll show you the result first then I explain about that. Okay. So let me show you. Okay. Okay, load it. Okay. So in this post first of all we try to detect the vegetation. Okay. Suppose we create the NDVI map and then detect the vegetation. Okay. And from this vegetation we connect the soil moisture data and then identify for the good vegetation area for different year. So in this case if you check the result here we find out the result from uh last

year is the 2022. Okay. Because this soil moisture data is available from 2022. Okay. If you show the result. So this is the soil moisture data. So last is the 2023. Okay. Or 23 can get the last result 2023 or December 3rd. Okay. So this is our data set for that global soil moisture data. We can easily get from here. And if you check it uh we can get this is the band about that soil moisture. So it retrive soil moisture estimate from the disagregated or downscale vertical polarization brightness temperature and

9 km grid cell. Okay. This is the 9,000 m uh resolution or pixel size. Okay. So this data we try to apply in here and uh we get this type of result. So if you check the result. So first of all I'll show the one by one layer. Okay. It create for uh 2018 to 2022. Okay. Okay. So, first of all, this is the map. This is the result for 2018. Okay. This is the result for 2018 NDVI map. Okay. This is the NDVI map. So, and this is the map for soil moisture. Okay. This is the map for soil moisture and this is

the map for NDVI. Okay. Soil moisture. So basically this type of place we find out that uh high soil moisture value. If you check it in this case I just keep only for the two color. You can see this type of color. So it show the suppose low ite high. Okay low and high. So we find out this type of place is the high soil moisture and this type of poly you find the low soil moisture condition. Okay. And this is the NDVI map. And further based on the soil moisture we identify for the good vegetation area. So if you

check this type of yellow color this type of yellow color it's indicating about the good vegetation area. Okay. And how I can select the vegetation in this case here I keep greater than 0.6. Okay. So this uh threshold value you can also change it depend on your uh vegetation area. So in this case I keep it 0.6. Okay. I take the all of uh vegetation greater than 0.6. Okay. And then identify uh if you want you can also put here the suppose uh 0 uh 0 suppose 0.5 or 0.4. Okay. 0.3 then it also including all of vegetation greater

than 0.3. If I put the 0.5 then it uh take all of vegetation greater than 0.5. Okay. So in this case this is the result for year of 20 2018. Okay. So then same as sorry but I have a question. Yeah please if I can. Yeah. Uh this means that uh our NDVI on 0.5 only we have good vegetation or 0.5 and above it's good vegetation. Yes. So basically vegetation it will be start from greater than zero. Okay. greater than zero. All of positive value. All of positive value indicating about the vegetation. Okay.

All of positive value. Positive value indicating about the vegetation. All of value. But good vegetation. Okay. Good vegetation uh we consider greater than 0.3 or 0.4 or 0.5. Okay. So this type of value indicating about the very dense vegetation. Okay. Dense vegetation. It indicating about that. But suppose uh 0.1.2 it can be grassland or seaggrass this type of vegetation not much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you can also check it change it on your requirement and further you can also easily create the map. So if I just

put the 0.5 and then I run the code then I this result I find out that greater than 0.5 all of pixel about that. Okay. So now this is the result for vis good visitation area. we try to identify for this type of place is the good vegetation based on our soil moisture data. Okay. And also NDVI greater than 0.6 we consider suppose same as this is the NDVI uh 2019. This is the map I just close it. So this is the map 2019 and we also calculate the soil merchure uh 2019 also. So this is a soil merchure map

2019. Okay, it's loading. Okay, you can see find out this type of place loading. So near to the coast. So that's why this type of place we find out that very good soil moisture. Okay. Near to the coast due to the uh water particle on the soil easily with that's why this type of near to the coast it display the very good um soil moisture value or high value we find out the near to the cost. Okay. As as well as this is the result for good vegetation area map for 2019. Okay. It's loading.

Sorry uh good vegetation which code part of code. Okay, I'll show you that for the good vegetation. So for the good vegetation in this case we try you can see good vegetation defined suppose in this case I put the 0.5 greater than 0.5 and soil moisture greater than average value average value of this soil moisture data suppose for this place what's the uh average value of soil moisture so we consider it soil moisture greater than average value okay so that's why I calculate the soil

merchure average value. Okay. Suppose for my study area I find out the soil merchure average value. Suppose um uh 20. So then I put the greater than greater than 20. All of those I find out the good vegetation. So good vegetation we define on the two factor. First factor for NDVI. Second factor is that mean suppose NDVI greater than 0.5. This is my one condition. And another condition is that soil moisture greater than average value average value of soil moisture. Okay, this for my study area. So define these two things we just

combine the good vegetation. Okay, so now if you check define this condition we find out that this type of place we find out the good vegetation based on the NDVI value as well as also soil moisture average value. Okay. Doctor, then same as Yeah. Doctor, please can you record the session from you and send it to us? Okay. Okay. No problem. Okay. Please. Just a minute. Because uh one more revision. Okay. Just Oh, it's recording. Okay. Okay. It's no problem. Yeah. Then you can also recall.

No problem. So now you find out this is the scenario uh this type of place. we find out the good vegetation based on the NDVI value as well as also soil moisture value. Okay. So two things we combine to identify for the good vegetation. So NDVI value suppose 0.5 I consider and soil moisture value I consider the ever average average soil mer uh data. So that's why I just simply come calculate the entire area soil merchure average value. Okay. So now these things we are just applying in here and then we compute you can see

this is the result for good vegetation 2019. Okay. And also you can see for same suppose 2020 and also calculate the soil moisture and also calculate the uh good vegetation for 2020. Same as for 2021 2022. Okay. So these things okay we try to deploy it suppose 2023. Okay. So suppose okay let me check this data is available from 2023 okay December. So let's may we try to develop it from 2023 and okay this is the data okay let me check this data last time period so this is the sentinel two satellite surface

reflectance it's available from 2017 okay so 2017 from 28 uh Mars okay so that's why I keep from 2018 okay that's why I just annually we calculate all of annually from 2018. Okay. So just I uh put here the 2018 and then just Okay. So we can easily change it. Suppose if I just put here 2023. Okay. Then we can get the result 2018 2023. So now let's check what happened. Okay. I think it will be okay. There is no problem. Yeah. See it also run. And I also added that uh you can see you can easily download you can

see the bootation 2018 NDVI map good 19. So all of geotif file image I also added in here. So further you can see 2023 is also added because I just put the 2023. So that's why we also get the map for 2023 also. So you can simply run it and then you can simply export all of file format. Further this go file format just make the arc map or QJS software to produce the map for your research or thesis or your presentation. Okay, just you download this type of map from here for creating the map layout view on arc

map or QJS. Okay. So in this case uh our main goal is that we try to identify good vegetation based on soil moisture data and also NDVI threshold value. Suppose I put the NDVI threshold value 0.5. So then it will be what look like that NDVI greater than 0.5 and also soil moisture greater than mean value. Okay. So then we are just apply this two condition and then identify for the good visitation area for our study area for 2018 to 2023. So all of you can also also you can see here. So this is the one way and all of

geoot file format you can easily download from here. Okay. All of map after downloading just apply the arc map software or QJS software to uh make the map for your uh study area. Okay. So this is the one analysis we identify for the good visitation. Okay. As well as okay so I hope you can also get the uh code how I can do it what's the method I follow. Any question you can ask me about that for this code. Dr. Uh can you uh up up uh can you go down? Yeah. Yes. Uh here here uh Mac max pixels and mini soil mean soil monster.

What means is called one? Okay. So this one basically uh when you work with big study area. Big study area. So in the big study area we find out the lot of pixel. Okay. So sometime this calculation is not work. So that's why we need to apply the max pixel value 1 13. It means that 1 uh multiply 10 uh 2 13. Okay. So just we increase the max pixel value then it will be easily computed otherwise it show the there lot of pixel that's why it cannot be computed. So this type of problem you also face when you apply the big study

area uh as well as if your result is okay without this max pixel value then it also good there is no problem but if you face the problem it not be calculated or computed then you try to use the max pixel otherwise max pixel is not need it's optional okay but if I face the problem then we try to use the max pixel yeah please as uh write memory memory limited excel A number limit exceeded it is right like this without max pixels which one or no if we if we didn't uh put max pixels yeah it also work you can see it also

work yeah there is no error okay so you can also ignore this part there is no problem okay so you can see no problem another question what mean pallet Which one? Uh color palette. This one. Yes. So it's a color plated. We can add the different types of color. Suppose you can see for the NDVI I put the two color white and green. You can also add the color different types of color to identify. Okay. Okay. So you can see the good vegetation I put the yellow color. So that's why this type of yellow about

that uh yellow you can put any color. And when you download this type of geot file format then you can easily add the color from your GIS tool. Mainly arc map uses software. You can easily add the color just your own color. You can easily add from the symbology. Simply go to the symbology and then you can easily add the color. Okay, that is top when we run uh this layers. Yeah, we open arc mgis and uh we add uh this uh okay I will I will I will show the one example. Okay, then it also more better. Yeah.

Okay, just a minute. I will show you for that year of 2000. Suppose uh okay I will show you for that NDVI 2023 this layer I want to download it working yeah I can now you can see it's working as well as I also download for good visitation 2023 okay this two layer I want to just uh show you that how we can easily work using QGS software or or RGS software to produce the map Same process you can say apply for others. Same just run it. So now you can see it will be working working. So in the meantime I also discuss about the

another code. Okay. When it will be finished then also come here again. Okay. So I hope you can get the idea how we can easily work with that for NDVA and soil moisture and identify for the good vegetation area. Okay. Okay. After that this is another. So in this code we try to identify for correlation. Okay. Suppose you can see for the correlation it's a uh it's a annually annually correlation we try to identify we find out the 0.4 four okay correlation and this is the correlation uh the this is

the time series chart you can see annual trend so first of all is the NDVI result we find out the 0.7 and for this year we find out that soil moisture 0.172 this is the result for 2019 this is the result for NDVI 2019 so we are just 1 2 3 4 5 years data we just put in here so now using this Five years data we calculated the correlation. Okay. Suppose we find out that the correlation value is the positive 0.4. Okay. So correlation value is the 0.4. It means that uh positive value. Okay. Positive

value indicating about the good soil equal to good vegetation. Okay. So if the soil is good then vegetation is also good. If the vegetation soil is low then vegetation is also low. It means that suppose you can see this is the correlation we find out the positive correlation. So if the v soil is good then vegetation is also good. If the soil is bad vegetation is also bad. If the soil moisture is low then vegetation is also low. If the soil moisture is good then vegetation is also good. So this is the correlation it also help

you. So for this uh annually we try to identify for the correlation and we find out the positive correlation. Okay, this is the annually positive correlation. We find out that from this chart we calculate the correlation. So how I can calculate the correlation? You can check. Okay, so for the correlation first of all we define the vegetation area. Suppose I consider 0.5. I consider 0.5 and I want to monitor suppose 2023 2023 I just monitor and in this case we just calculate the NDVI as well as uh we

are you can see we take the greater than threshold value greater than threshold value means that I put the greater than 0.5 okay and then we also call the soil moisture data this is the soil mer data we calculate about the average soil moisture and we are just compute the Average NDVI you can see we compute the average NDVI average NDVI for each year as well as compute the average soil moisture average soil moisture and then we are just make a list uh for NDVI and ER and also soil moisture and ER just

make the list and further create the feature collection uh ER and NDVI just create the chart okay just plot the chart so you find out this type of chart annual average NDVI annual average soil customer share for each year 2018 to 20122. Okay. So now further these two data we are just calculate the correlation. Okay. So we find out the positive correlation. So for the correlation we are just apply the P correlation. Okay P correlation value. So just apply the P correlation uh and then we find out the

positive value or close to the plus one or positive value. it uh this positive relationship it means that if the soil is good vegetation is also good if the soil is bad visilation is also bad because it's the positive correlation not negative okay if the we find out the negative correlation then it will be opposite okay so now it the positive correlation so that's why you find out the good correlation about the soil mer data and NDVI data okay and this is the correlation result 0.4 before yeah please uh which

difference uh between person correlation and correlation so this is the 49% we find out that okay 49% correlation equal 0.49 uh uh person value person basically this 04 what is the difference between the two values okay so this if you just convert into percent then we find out the 49%. Okay. So 49% correlation between the NDVI and soil merchure. Soil merchure and NDVI we find out the 49% correlation or relation correlation you find out that. Okay. Okay. So now now it means that if the vegetation or if the

soil moisture is good vegetation is also good. If the soil moisture is bad vegetation is also bad. Okay. Because it's a positive correlation. And if I find out the negative then it the opposite. Okay. Suppose visitation is good then individ is bad. Okay it's called the negative correlation or negative uh just opposite. Okay. So this is the correlation. So this chart you can also add in your study and then further this is the value you can also mention in your thesis then it will be more better. So this is the another code

as well as yeah. So this thing we try to okay what is that? Uh sorry but uh what about the P value and the task before? Okay so P value basically okay so this P value we find out that uh basically acceptance level okay so this correlation acceptance level 40%. Okay. Okay. Suppose just if you draw the graph so what the acceptance level 40% acceptance level about this. So if we have 40% uh from the correlation it means that when the soil is good vegetation good. Yes. Below this value it's uh we have a problem. Yes. Yes.

Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. So this one is for that and Okay. So this Okay. This is another port. So in this code I try to develop for your visitation chance. Okay. Suppose how much vegetation will be changed for the different year. Suppose 2018 to 2019 2019 to 2020 2020 to 2020 yearly suppose between two year where the vegetation increasing where the vegetation decreasing. So this type of things I try to display and create the map in here. So this is the chance percent. Suppose for 20 2023 to 2024 for

between this two year where vegetation increasing where vegetation is decreasing we try to compute for this year suppose two year 2018 to 2019 okay percent vegetation percent so for that okay I'll show you the result Okay. First of all, you try to compute the NDI change. Okay. Between the each year 2018 to 19, 19 to 20, 20 to 21, 21 to 22, 22 to 23, 23 to 24. Further we compute the NDVI percent change. Okay, just I will show you the one then discuss about the percent change change and this type of layer you can also

download it from here. I already add you can see all of this just simply download and make the map add the list and or title or other things then you can it will be okay there is no problem. So you can see we find out this type of place this is the result for 2023. So now it display the first layer. So basically this type of blue color indicating about the vegetation change area. Okay. And this type of green color we can find out the some green pixel it indicating about the vegetation uh change area. We find

out the vegetation. Okay. So if you check the result for this to uh 20 to 24 this the result for 22 23. This is the result for 21 to 22. This is the result for 20 to 21. This is the result for 90 to 20. This is the result for 18 to 19. Okay. And when you compute the percent chance suppose just click show the rare. So now you find if you just work with the percent tense. So this type of red color indicating about that vegetation loss area. Okay. Vation loss. Okay. Between this year 18 to 19 vegetation is

loss. And this type of green color indicating about the vegetation gain area. This type of green color. Okay. So this is the result for 18 to 19. This is the result for 19 to 20. We find out this type of result. This is the result for 20 to 20 to 21. Okay. Red is indicating about the vegetation loss. Green is indicating about the vegetation gain. Visitation gain area. This is the 21 to 22. Okay. So you can see find out the lot of area vegetation loss red color we find out that so only for this type of place

we find out the vegetation and if you check the 2023 so we find out this type of result for the 2023 and finally NDVI percent chance we find out the 23 to 24 we find out this type of result so you can see this type of red color indicating about the vegetation loss there is no vegetation vegetation decreasing and this type of green color indicating about the vegetation gain area between these two time period. Okay. So let's go how I can compute it. So for doing these things we are just uh apply the signal to surface

reflectance satellite imagery and compute the NDVI. We calculate the average NDVI and then we compute the for ECR suppose 2018 19 20 214 then stack all of imagery just make a one image collection. Okay, stack all of those imagery and then calculate the change for ECR. Okay, so just we simply calculate the change for ECR. Suppose 20 18, 19, 19, 20, 21, 22 just each year we try to compute and further it display the change. This is the NDVA change map we also display and then calculate the percent. So this is the uh formula for

percent. Suppose image 2 image 2 suppose year of 2020 subtract with year of 2019 divided by 2019 multiply 100. So this is the formula. This is the formula for calculate the percentage change. Okay. Suppose I will show you that uh this formula is that suppose uh NDVI 2020 minus NDVI 2019. Okay. Then divided by NDVI NDVI 2019 and multiply with 100. So this is the formula for calculate the percent change of vegetation or or NDVI. So now same formula we also apply for all of those 2023 to 2024 2022 23 21 to 22. So just

apply this formula NDVI uh past and before. Okay. So after and before. Okay. Suppose this is the 2020 then put the 2019. Okay. And then multiply with the 2019 and multiply with uh 100. So this is the formula. Suppose previous year and past year. So this is the past year. This is the previous year. Okay. This is the past. This is the previous. Okay. Divided by previous multiple with 100. So this is the formula uh for percent change formula for NDVI. So just apply the same formula for all of images. You can see calculate

percent NDVI 2018 and 19. NDVI 2019 to 20 20 to 21 then 23 to 24 same code. Okay. Then we find out this type of result for NDVI percentage chance for different different year. So now from here you can easily get the idea. So you can see red I also write suppose red in negative chance decreasing vegetation. So red color indicating about the negative change. White color it indicating about the no change and green green is a positive change in it means that increasing the vegetation. If you check the value suppose just click on

here and click on this red color. So now we find out that you can check the result we find out this type of result. You can see we find out the negative. Okay. So negative0.08 means that decreasing vegetation. Okay. Decreasing vegetation you find out in here you can see you can see this is the result 2022 and 23 for 22 and 23 you find out the negative okay for this layer you can see now it's opening this layer so you find out the negative negative means that decreasing if I just check suppose this type of positive or

green color it show the positive value okay and positive value indicating about that vegetation increasing for this place so we can see find out the 22 23 0.0 07 so it show the positive it show the positive so positive means that it increasing the visitation so this is the way to compute the um NDVI percent change and also NDVI change between 2 year before and after 2023 to 2024 and you can also export all of those from here you can see okay just export and make the map using arc map or QS sub to display the result properly

Okay. Okay. So I hope you can also get the idea how we can easily compute the uh these things NDVI percent change. Okay. Can any question you can ask me please? Doctor. Yeah please. Uh uh on percentage. Uh change. Yeah. Can you scroll down on values? values and change not. Yeah. Yes. Here. Yeah. Uh this value 0.07 uh between what and what uh it's good or better between minus one or one. Okay. So basically uh in this case we find out that this type of value suppose if you uh check the comment uh if the positive

value suppose negative value for all of time suppose all of map all of map that this type of uh red color pixel this type of red color pixel it's indicating about the negative chance negative chance means that decreasing vegetation okay and positive value indicating about that increasing vegetation Okay. But 0.02 uh what is the unit or uh so it's it's it's there is no unit it's just a value index value suppose NDVI index value 0.1.2 0.6 six this type of value this is the NDVI you can see in this case we are

just apply here this uh this uh this fun uh this equation suppose if I show you from the Google suppose NDVI change percent simply search you can see here uh let's say NDVI value is 0.2 to initial suppose initial year and NDVI is 0.8 for the new year for the same area difference just simply calculate the difference and divided by 0.2 okay suppose 0.8 minus 0.2 divided by 0.2 so we find out the 3% and multiply with 100 then we find out the 300%. This indicates the 300% increase in NDVI. It's suggesting significant

increase in vegetation or density. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I know. But uh let me see in the code. Yeah. This is in percentage not here. Yeah. It's a percentage. Oh, just simply multiply with 100%. Okay. Then it will be okay. 7%. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Then we just simply multiply. So it also multiply with the 100% but in this case it show the floating number okay floating number display but when you multiply with 100% then it will be okay there is no problem okay so this is the result for that and

percentage change and um okay this is the correlation and this is the vegetation and good yeah so this is very important about that so now in this code we try to develop for suppose uh NDVI and precipitation for our study area what the total monthly annual monthly rainfall and monthly NDVI. So in this case it display for one year 2020. But if you change the year then you can easily get the result for others. Suppose if you check uh okay in this case yeah so just you can simply change the year. Suppose I need the data

for 20 uh suppose 22. Just put the 2020 and run the code. So now this chart will be generated for 2022. Okay. Suppose which year you need just simply change the year. Change the year then you can easily get the result. You can easily get the chart. Change the year value. Okay. For your study area. So this is the result for 2022. We find out okay monthly monthly. What is the value for monthly NDVI? What is the value for monthly uh precipitation? What is the value for monthly NDVI? What is the value for monthly precipitation? So

now from here this type of data further we also use to identify different types of pattern different type of things we can easily identify or make the correlation suppose what the correlation between the vegetation and and precipitation if the precipitation is good then what the status of vegetation. So this type of analysis you can also do from here you can download the CSD file also download the photo of the chart. Okay. But for that you need to simply change your year. Okay. Suppose which is

year unit just simply put the year then it automatically generate the this type of chart and from this we can easily get the idea when the precipitation is high when what's happened for vegetation when the precipitation is low what happened for the vegetation. Okay. So this is the same code uh okay just it it provide only for that uh chart. Okay. We try to create this type of chart for total monthly rainfall versus monthly average NDVI. Okay. So just simply change in here then you can easily get the result for this

type of chart for all year from 20 2018 to 2023. Okay. Just simply put change the year then it automatically show you the result in here for precipitation and NDVI. For the NDV we just use here the sentinel 2 surface reflectance data and for the vegetation for the rainfall we try to put the chart satellite imagery. Okay. This is the charts panted satellite imagery to identify for precipitation or rainfall. Yeah. So this is the another way and okay. So okay. So these things we try to compute it for the study area yearly NDVI time

chart. So we try to identify for yearly you can see this is the result for 2018 then 19 it's average value for each year. Okay. You can also download the CSV file just click on here and for that you can also show the chart from your CSV file. So this is the result you can see 2018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25. So further you can also make the chart using your Excel file more better chart for your thesis. Okay. As well as if you check the if you check this is the result for monthly. Okay. This is the monthly just download

the data. So then you can easily get that all of year monthly data. So you can see 2017 all of data 2018 okay all of data then 2019 all of month January, February, March, April, May up to December then 2020 then all of data you can easily find out. So further you are just use here the Excel file or Excel and then create the different types of analysis. Okay, different types of just use the data and then create the different types of analysis for your study or for your thesis. So this is the way to make the chart. This is the

monthly chart and this is the annual chart, yearly NDVI chart for your study area. Okay. So we just use here the uh surface reflectance satellite imagery. Okay. And um you can see we are just for Okay. Okay, for it's not showing any layer. So for the layer we try to add the another code. Yeah. So this one. Okay. So in this code, so it identify about that your um road severity index we try to identify where we find out the high road is we find out the low rot and we find out this type of result. Okay. So basically

this type of place it indicating about the high road this is the moderate this is the low road this type of green color indicating about that low road and in this case we try to use this data it's called that um plumber road separity index okay if you show you that this data set so this is the terra climate data monthly climate and climate water balance data so this data we find about uh this is the plumber dro severity index okay so PDSI okay it provide the PDSI it's the plumber dro severity index

it's globally available this data available from 1958 to present we find out the data so we find out plumber uh severity index okay so if you as well as so we we just do the PDSI this is our band name PDSI so just we are use the PDSI and uh in this time uh this is the map for 2020. Okay, this is the map for 2020. Suppose I need the result for others year. So simply change the year. Suppose put the 20 uh 20 or 2018. Okay, then run the code. So now it display the result for 2018. We find out. Okay, you can see it show this type

of result. It show totally red color. Okay, so how I can fix it? So for that just click on the setting button and then click on the stress 98% I keep and then apply. So now you find out this type of result. Okay this type of result you find out and this data set a scale pixel size is very high. If you check the pixel size is not good. it show that uh you can see 4,638. Okay, one pixel size very high. So that's why we find out this type of grid or cell. Okay, this type of grid or cell and if you check the value so you can

see we find out that this is the value about that PDSI value. PDSI will you find out and you can see we find out that so this type of positive value indicating about that uh low growth condition okay low growth condition and negative value indicating about that high growth condition this type of negative ple indicating but this type of positive it's indicating about the low condition okay so you find out you can see this time uh March 2023 also you can see this time okay but we find out this time is

very I D condition. So this chart basically 2002 2022 okay data and it represent the D severity index for the different month we find out in here. So this is the one kind of data you also check later. Okay. And if you just simply change the year then you can easily get the you can also download the data. You can see from here just download it will be downloaded and if you check the okay so this one basically it show the suitability land suitability land it different types of factor okay so in this case I just

simply add some factor so that's why it look like that okay suppose if you check the result so in this time I just put here the distance to river so this is the distance to river map for your study area if you check this is the hillshed this the hillshed map. This is another factor. This is the slope slope map. This is the LST. This is the LST map. Okay. And this is the rainfall. It look like that because rainfall. Yeah. Okay. Just let me show you that stressing and show you the result. Okay. Just apply.

So it show this type of place for rainfall because rainfall data this is not very good resolution. So that's why this type of cell or this type of PL it show the high rainfall. Okay. And this type of red color indicating about the low rainfall. Then yellow and this type of place we find out the moderate this type of color indicating about that. So it's one kind of rainfall data. And finally this is the elevation. Okay. So you find out this type of red color indicating about the high elevation.

This type of blue place we find out the low elevation. Okay. So this is the elevation. So based on the elevation, based on the rainfall, based on on the LST, based on the slope, based on the hillshade, based on the distance to river, we identify agricultural suitability land. So now we find out that this type of green color it indicating about the high suitability for agricultural land. This type of green color and this type of red color indicating about the not suitable. Okay. yellow color low suitable then marginal

then moderate suitable. So this is the one kind of suitability analysis but if you add the more item so more item mainly land use land cover as well as also add suppose other different types of factor which influence the uh agricultural land then we can easily identify more better result. So in this case I just try to use distance to river road hillshed slope LSD rainfall and elevation as well as if you want you can add the distance to road map. Okay distance to road then build up distance to build up. So there are lot of uh

factor if you want you can also add and also create the more suitability map for your study area. So in this case we try to put this type of things. Okay. And okay. Okay. Doctor, you want to to see us how uh we run it on GIS. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, you can also download it from here. Download the geot file format. You can see our analysis is already downloaded. So now I want to open these two file. Okay. You can see good visitation and NDVI. So just click on here and open in drive. So now it open you can see this is my

two file which I downloaded. So just I simply download just download this file. Okay it's downloaded. Okay let me open also the arc map or QS is the same process. I open suppose QGS or ARC map is also okay to use this type of file. Can you open please map? Uh we want to use AR. Okay, just a minute. Okay. So then let me change my uh laptop because Okay, let me connect another laptop. Just a minute. I will show you that just a minute because this laptop is not available for that map. Okay, just a

minute. I try to open Don't. Can you save please record? Yeah. Okay. Let me Okay. Can you see my screen? Yeah. Yes. Yes. Okay. So now let me download this file. So simply go to the code editor again. and we can easily uh find out the tax tab. You can see tax tab. Just click on the tax. So this is the output. So let me just download again. Open in drive. So now you find out this folder like that just simply download download. Okay, let me also open arc map. Okay, opening. This is our downloaded folder.

Just simply unzip Just unzip. So this is our file. Okay, this is a two file. So let's go try to import in the arc map. Yes. And if you check it, this is the NDVI. And yes. Okay. So now you find out imported the two t file which I downloaded from Google Earth Engine. So now how I can work with this two file. So you can see it already show this type of black screen. Okay. So I need to remove this type of blint as well as I need to create the more better map. Okay. So how I can create? So for that we also need

to import the shape file of this boundary. Okay. So okay I think you also send me the shape file in my WhatsApp. Okay. Let me download. Where is it? Oh, we sent the group. Yes. Here. Yeah, this one. Yeah. Just simply save a shape file. I save it in the download folder. Okay. And then adding some problem. Just a minute. And after a few minute our meeting will be end. So I will send you the new link. Try to join. This is the problem for the crafting software. Okay. So, arc map is I just use the craft in my laptop. So, that's

why sometime it will be handy. Just Okay. Simply import the shape file in art map also aspension. Simply drag and open. Just a minute. Okay, just unzip it. Okay, done. So just we simply imported the file and also imported the SHF file. So this are study area just simply imported. So first step just simply go to the catalog. From the catalog you find out that system toolbox. Okay, let me share my screen again. Can you see my screen? Yes. Yes. Okay. So, after importing the TF format and also import the shape file, simply go to

the catalog and you can see the catalog special analytics tools. Just click special analyst tools and you can find out that extraction extract by max double click on extract by max. So now it open this type of window. So here input raster just put suppose NDV I want to work for the NDVI 2023 I want to create just import and also import the feature marks. Basically just import the shape file boundary and also okay. So now this it create the another layer and this new layer automatically remove the black

screen. So it working. extract by max. Okay, it's done. So now remove the previous one. So now if not need just remove just remove. So now you find out this type of map. Okay, so now simply click on the right click and click on the properties. So now from the properties just add the color. Suppose you can see different types of color. So I want to add I want to add this type of color or you can any color just apply and okay. So now we find out this is the NDVI map we generate. Okay. This is the it's about the NDVI.

So now I also add the good vegetation. Good vegetation basically uh this layer this layer have the good vegetation this layer but it show this type of result. Okay, this is the good vegetation but it show the black screen. Same process just apply. Click on here struck by marks and input roster just put the good vegetation layer. Okay, which you not completed. So just edit and then also feature maps with your shape file boundary basically south and then okay. So now it create the another layer and

easily remove the black screen. Okay done. So now just remove it. It's not made just I remove. So now if you check this is the first map of NDVI. So this is the NDVI map. Okay. And this is the map. It show the classification. Suppose this type of place we find out the good vegetation. So I want to change the color. It will be more better. I just click on the properties. Basically it's one kind of classification. Okay. Suppose good vegetation and bad vegetation based on the soil moisture and NDVI value. So

let's try to add the color. So just click on the layer and go to the properties. So I want to add the good vegetation suppose this type of green color and others place I want to display suppose no color okay there is no color I want to add so just put the no color then apply and okay so now you find out this type of result for the you find out the good visitation if you want you can also overlay okay just you can overlay overlay with the map with your NDVI map so I want to display the good vegetation

with the another color. So it will be more better. Suppose I want to put here for that uh suppose this type of and you can see I want to suppose this type of green or any color. So just apply and okay. So now this is our NDVI map in year of 2023 and this type of color indicating about the good vegetation based on soil moia data and also based on NDVI threshold value 0.5. So I think it will be more better if I try to put another color then we can easily differentiate. Suppose I keep the yellow color. Okay, you can put anything

you can also put here. Suppose it's a it's a good vegetation. I put okay and these things uh if you want you can also remove it if not need just remove if not need just apply and okay so now this is my NDVI map and this type of vegetation it show as a good vegetation okay if you want you can also add I think it look more better if I put the green color I think because vegetation so we try to put the green color this type of green color. Okay, let me try. You also try to put which color is more better. Try to use.

So you find out this type of place for the better visitation and this is the NDVI map. Okay, this is the NDVI map and this is the good visitation map. So now I want to create the both of map in a one layout. So for that click on the view and click the layout view. So now for the we uh add the layout. So just increasing the map size just increase. And now I need to increasing the uh P size. Click on the file and go to the phase and print setup. So then I want to put the landscape. Okay. As okay just okay.

So it create this type of thing. So now just keep the frame and the better place. Okay. also decrease or also increasing the height and width of your page. Suppose I put the page width suppose 15 uh and also put the height suppose uh suppose 70 just increase the height. So now you find out this type of map just increasing the map frame size. Okay. Okay. And some increasing for the width also then better. Suppose we put here uh 18. Okay. So this is my map. Now add all of basic element of your map.

sess and title or others. So for that just click on the insert and title. Suppose I put the title is that NDVI and vegetation area or you can put any title uh in doctor we will make uh this uh this plan this uh for each year. So this is the year 2023. Yes. Yeah. So this same proced apply for others years. just download and make the map. Okay. Okay. So this is the year 2023. Okay. Now for that just click on the insert and add the legend. Suppose just next next finish. So now we find out this type of leent.

So I want to remove some font just convert to graphics and also ungroup. So I want to remove this things if not need uh I just keep suppose NDVI value just make a group and I put it suppose in this place. So this is the NDVI oh sorry okay one thing is not group. So just select all of those together and then right click and group. So now I keep it now I just keep it in this place and this le I also keep just right click and group. So I put it in this place in this place I simply put. Okay. So now uh I want to add the others.

Suppose I want to put here uh insert and go to the scale bar. So fit to the page. I just put this this one just okay. And I keep it suppose this place and also add the north arrow. So north arrow suppose I want to keep and put the north arrow in here. So then I want to add suppose uh grid line. So click on the layers. Go to the properties and then new grid. Next, next. Next. Finish. Click on the properties again. So vertical levels left and right. Okay. Size I put suppose 12. Then access put the inside also. Put the inside. Intra

levels uh lines don't show lines then okay it also okay just apply and okay apply so it look very small font okay let me increasing the level size just click on the levels I keep it uh suppose 28 apply and okay apply Okay. Hit also. Okay. Okay. Just keep in the proper place. Just simply decrease some area. Yeah. And also decrease from bottom. And also decrease from here. Okay. Suppose this is the map. If you want, you can also add a base map. Click on the click on here. And it's the base

map. Suppose I add the topographic map. Select and add. And now further I want to calculate suppose how much good vegetation area in 2023 because it also help you for your thesis compute the area. So good visation area how much we calculate the area. Well, I will show you also this process. You just apply the same process for the other years. Same process and compute the area of visitation boot visitation area. So now you can see it will be added. So just we try to uh save the map file and export map.

Put the map suppose I put suppose you can put any name. I put the good vegetation map and then I save it in my desktop and you can see that DPI 400 or keep 300 or 400 is better and then JPZ format or PDF format. I keep the JP easy format and then save it. So now this map is saved as a JFG format. it working. Okay. So finally output we find out this is the final output of our map in year of 2023. So this is the map we find out okay very good resolution you can see because it's a sentinel 2 satellite imagery I just

use. So now I want to compute how much good vegetation area in this map. Okay. Then you also try to apply the same process and compute the area because it will help you then you can easily get the idea how much area change increasing or decreasing. We just get the idea. So this map I want to compute the good vegetation area. So if you simply check the properties or check the attribute table. So you find out this is the two one. Okay. So basically this one this one is for good vegetation. You can see the one

is good vegetation. Okay. So now when to compute the area and it already the this type of place we find out in here. So first step is that we compute the area. So just I make a uh uh column. Okay. Just make a column. So for creating the column just click on here and go to the edit feature. Start editing. Okay. I know just okay just a minute it's not first we okay let me show you that just open the attribute table again and click on the add field you can see the add field I put the field name suppose uh

suppose class you can put anything and I put the suppose it's a I put the text I put the text okay so now I want to add the text in here so I want to add the text uh suppose just click on here and go to the edit feature and study editing. Okay. So on study editing open now I write here. So it's a suppose I put it's a bad vegetation bad or you put anything I put suppose bad vegetation. Okay. And second one I put suppose it's a good vegetation. Okay. So then just is editing and stop

editing and yes. So now it added this type of level and I want to create the another column add field. Suppose I put the at field name is the area and put here that um double floating number double then yes. So now it compute the area in this column. So just click on here and go to the calculate geometry field calculator. Okay, in the field calculator so we are simply click on the count. Okay, count it's multiply with scale value. Scale value basically uh 10 m. pixel size 10 m. So now we find out that this is the area

we find out in here. Uh it's a meter okay square meter unit. So I want to convert suppose a square kilometer or others the same procedure just apply in here. Suppose these things I want to convert into square kilometer. So for the square kilometer just divided by 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 okay just okay so now you find out that this type of result okay so 2.26 26 square kilometer area we find out that good vegetation area in year of 2023. Okay. So this is the one way to compute the area. So basically this area we

computed suppose this type of good vegetation area. So this type of place we find out that 2.262 square kilometer area. Okay. So further you try to compute for others year. Okay. Then you try to check the variation how much area increasing or how much area decreasing. So these things we can easily calculate from here. So this is the one way to compute the area. Okay. Let me show you the another way. Suppose just click on here. Uh click on the conversion. So if you check the conversion conversion

and then convert from raster raster to polygon. So input raster just put this first layer. Okay this layer and then okay. So now it create another polygon. Okay. It create this type of polygon. If you check it, we find out this type of result. Okay, zero and one one all of those. So now all of similar class I make the merge. I just make a merge. So for that just click on geoprocessing and click on the dissolve input feature. I put here this first one and click on the grid port because I want to similar all of class just make

the merge then okay. So now it dissolve it working. Okay, it's done. So now just let me open attribute table. So here you can see find out the shape and area length and area. Okay. So just I create the add field suppose class in the class I want to add. So just editor and start editing again. I just Okay. Just click on here. I put here it say suppose bad and this one suppose good. I put this type of bad and this one is for suppose bad vegetation I put. Okay. This value enter is current of the

whole number. Okay. Just a minute. I think some mistake in here. Okay. Let just a minute. We put here the number. Okay. But it will be text. Okay. So for that just we just I delete the field. Just I take the new field add field and field type is very important. So I put the text. Okay. And I put the field name suppose class. and then okay so now I just start editing again start editing and okay so now we can easily add the text suppose it's a bad and it's a good bad and good presentation and

then editor stop editing so now add a new class just a new field suppose you can see the add field I put the suppose area okay area basically double or floating number double. Okay. So now we try to add the area. Click on here. You can see the calculate geometry. Yes. So now in this case we need to convert it projected coordinate system. Okay. You can see it show the area disabled because it the geographic coordinate system. So we need to convert into projected coordinate system mainly UTM zone. So can you say me what is the

UTM zone for your study area? What the UTM John value projected coordinate system value for your study area uh number UTM zone suppose the coordinate system you can see if I just show you that it's a projected and it's a pro uh geography and projected so for the projected uh UTM value UTM uh for that WS984 four. So, northern or southern which hemisphere. Okay. So, tell me your country name. What's the country name? Lebanon. Lebanon. Lebanon. Okay. Let me check. Uh we we use number. Okay. So, suppose let me check for

Lebanon. Lebanon UTM zone number. So for the Lebanon I think they use here the UTM zone 36. Okay. Projected porn in Lebanon. It's a UTM zone 36 north between. Okay. So we try to put the UTM zone 36 north and calculate the area. Suppose northern UTM zone 36 36 north. Okay. Just I select apply and also okay. So now we set the projected coordinate system. So now we again check click on here and go to the calculate geometry. So now we find out that we can see area it show the area now it above first time it show the

disabled because previous time it was project geographic coordinate system but when I convert into projected then we can get it the area. So now you can see I calculate the area you can see the square kilometer or meter. So I calculate so square kilometer. Okay. and also yes. So now you find out that this is the area and this way is very best way because in this time we are just calculate the shape length and shape area. So you try to follow this second step uh shape length and shape area we just combine and then we calculate the

area. So we find out this is the area about that I want to calculate suppose percent. So for the percent tense I just take a new add field I put it's a percentage and percent I put suppose it's a double and okay so for the percent tense we computed so just click on here and you can see the statistics so we find out that uh sum this is the total area sum basically bad and good vegetation total area just like copy the value because this bill I also need. Then just click on here and go to the calculate uh field

calculator. So then yes. So I just choose here percentage equal to um percentage equal to area column. Okay. These things multiply with 100 divided by total area. Okay. So just like compute in into percent just like multiply 100 and divided the total area then okay so now you find out you can see 8.69% area we find out the good vegetation and bad vegetation 91.3%. Just we talk about the good so 8.69% area 8.69% area we find out the good vegetation in year of 2023. So this same process you can also apply

and also compute the area for statistical result and also create the map look like that. Okay. So this is the way. Yeah please. But uh but uh another method uh the number was different. Yes. Because in this case very big difference. Yes. Uh uh the vegetation was 2 km square. Here was uh 1,70 square. Nope. Okay. Just let me check. Okay. But second method is more appropriate. And just open attribute here. Yes. So this one. Yeah. No two kilome. Okay. I think we we make a mistake in here. Just a minute. Let me check.

Make the mistake. So it will be it will be area equal to basically 10 into 10. Okay. 10 into 10. So count number. So this is the pixel. But what is the pixel area? Okay. pixel area will be 10 into 10 basically 100 m 100 m pixel area. So I put here the 100 multiply okay with the pixel and then just I run it. So now you find out this type of result and these things I want to convert suppose square kilometer. Okay suppose a square kilometer. So just divide it. Divide it. Oh divided by 10 uh four not six. Oh

just a minute. So I think we Okay. Okay. So so so it will be 10,000. Yeah. Yes. So 10. No. Uh yes. Yes. Or zero. Yes. So I find this this type of result. Okay. But with this result you find out that how much area? 170. Okay. 170. Yes. Okay. I think you try to follow the second method because second method uh sometime uh we we face some problem on the pixel area. Suppose if you just uh check the pixel pixel suppose I say simply zoom then you can find out the pixel or just open this imagy so then we can

easily find out that pixel just grid or cell size geometry is more accurate. Yeah geometry is more accurate. Yeah because all pixel size is not same you can see. Okay. Uh okay, let me calculate. Suppose this is one kind of picture to compute. Click on the measure tool and compute. So you can see it show that 30 m. Okay, 30 m. But uh Sentinel 2 it provide that uh 10 m. So that's why it also better when you compute the area try to calculate the uh raster to vector conversion. Okay. Second step then we find out this type

of we can see a shape length and shape area. Okay. So further we are just calculate the area. So this result will be more accurate than previous one because all of pixel is not similar. All of pixel size is not similar. So that's why I'll show you the both of process. So you try to follow the second step then it will be more better. And this one is for your map. Okay. So not only for that any map. Okay. So when I send you the code, you try to download all of map step by step all of uh layer

and then you just apply the same process to create the map using the arc map software. Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. So I will send you all of those. You try to do it. I hope you can easily do it and before that simply make the payment then you can easily get all of code link and also okay also send me your email. I also send the this type of recorded class I will send you. Then you try to follow and then make the map. Okay. Okay. Do you have any question? You can ask me please. Okay. So now we will get the code by

email code of Google Earth. Yeah. Yeah. I'll send you that. No problem. Okay. Uh uh uh how we will uh make the payment? What's okay? So from the from the Lebanon you try to use the Western Union. Western Union. Okay. So I'll send you the information. You just after make the payment send me the payment receipt then it'll be okay. No problem. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Today is no more. Okay. Doctor. Yeah. Please doctor. Uh oh. When you send the code, we only copy paste the code editor. No, no, no.

I will send you Okay. So, I'll show you that. So, I will send you the code link. Suppose you can see. Oh, okay. Okay. Copy and paste. Yeah. Yeah. So, I'll send you that. Uh suppose suppose this is the code link. Suppose this is the one kind of link. So, just I send you this type of link. Just you can simply click on here then it will be open. Okay. In your code editor. Oh, open. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Uh tomorrow we will uh make the payment. Uh send your name and your Okay. I will send you the

information on WhatsApp. We will talk on WhatsApp. Thank you. Okay. I'll send you. Thank you. Okay. Bye. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Bye.

class 19

hello everyone welcome to the study hex Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I will also discuss a important topic on Precision agriculture so basically today's session I try to discuss about that how we can easily monitor the crop yield prediction using ground to data so let's go so this is one kind of our online training program for precision culture using remote sensing in Google Earth engine if you want to interested this training program and learn how to we use the different types of remote sensing technique and

agriculture section so you can easily get all of information from this link so this link I already added in the video description so further check all of course content and if you want to join then simply contact in this WhatsApp number also contact with this email so today's session I discuss about that how we can easily monitored the crop field prediction based on ground through data so for that here I already collected some ground root data so if you check this Excel file so basically this Excel file including the

latitude and longitude value and also including some yield data for each location so now we try to use this coordinate and also use this type of e dat data and then further we try to monitor crop yield prediction so for this reason first of all we need to simple uh import our all of data so basically crop field is also different some variable or factor so forther first of all I try to import The Sentinel 2 satellite imagary and then I try to put at the growing season so basically December to uh April which

take this time period and then further we calculate the ndvi and then also take this land set and also calculate the ndvi as well as we also take the Modis and also we calculate the ndpi and we also try to monitor for precipitation so for the precipitation we take this uh CHP satellite imagary and further we also try to monitor for the growing season what is the precipitation average precipitation we consider and also temperature because temperature precipitation or soil information so this type of factor is very effect on

the crop field so that's why we also take this type of variable and further we also take that soil moisture information and combine all of feature together so after combining so in this case we simply import our C Feld information basically longitude value ltitude Val supp put at the cor yield data and for the we try to take our history M our point and then further we try to use here the 900 M buper and then we try to create this type of rectangle in here okay so after doing these things we simply collect the training pixel

value and in this case we also try to use the property name basically eeld because in this case we try to use this e data as a properties okay and further we just create the random Forest uh machine learning model and connecting with our training data and then further we just try to predict what is that uh crop field prediction for E field so if you check this type of map we generate in here for E field so we can easily get this type of listen also add in here so we find out that uh this type of red

color indicating about that low copi prediction um uh 2.12 ton or less than 2.12 ton and this type of green color so basically this type of green color indicating about that 7.88 ton or more than 7.88 ton result so this is the process using this process we can easily predict for crop yield prediction based on the different types of factor as well as also use at the some ground to data really ground sample data and further we can easily uh export this type of map as a go file format and also use as well as

if you want you can also calculate the linear relationship between this type of factor with your ground uh with your crop he data so first another another lecture I also discuss about that how we can easily create the linear relationship between the cor field data and other factor or parameter so today's number and if you want to join my online training program and learn the Precision agriculture using remote on GS so basically it's one kind of private training so if you are interested to join and learn all of

details for that in this case we try to only example only for that agriculture Precision area how we can e use GIS and remote sensing so if you want to join simply contact in this email and also contact with this WhatsApp number so today's no more thank you for watching that stay happy it's the set

Class 20 

uh explain about this method and further if you want interest then we try to disc SM that okay so let me share my screen yeah thank you can you see my screen uh not it yep all good it's just loading enough yep all good I could see your screen [Music] aailable freely such as Cal 2 satellite imagary so it's one kind of free data and this data set special resolution is a 10 to 20 M temporary res five days as well as we can use this data set uh to create the ndvi map evi NWI for Pro with uh Pro monitoring and this data set we

can easily access from the Google engine or Copernicus Hub open Hub we can easily access this data as well as we also use here the L set 8 and N so basically land set 8 and N special resolution is a 30 m and it's a 16 days uh temporal so this data set is also useful to identify for ndvi or Savvi indices for pro health and ELD estimation it also use and then Modis Modis data series also provide this type of information we can easily get the n I and which can be used to monitor the pro growth phase and stress

in the we field it also use yes as well as we also use the climate variable such CH satell IM climate Hazard group infar precipitation with station data so this special resolution is the 5 kilomet and temporary resolution is a five daily we can get this data and this data set is useful for understanding the water stress and irrigation requirement and it's also monitoring rainfall which affect with crop field okay as well as we also use at the er5 data set basically it's one kind of ecmwf

reanalysis data and we can get the hourly data set and this data set we can easily get uh temperature wind speed solar radiation soil moisture and we are crucial for modeling the weight uh crop and yield prediction and the can easily access from here as well as uh for the soil data it also uh responsible for the pro yield prediction in this case I use the this soil data okay so this is the short name about that soil GD and basically provide Global prediction for soil properties such as organic carbon

pH texture bul density so this is the vital for understanding the soil health and its impact on the uh it uh yield okay yeah and uh so this is the this type of data we are just using here and basically we provide you the best accuracy suppose in this time we already discussed for landet Sentinel okay this type of imagary so basically we get the better accuracy uh Sentinel 2 satellite imager because senel 2 satellite image is the high resolution than this type of L set eight or nine okay so basically in

this case in our model uh if you want you can simply use the Sentinel two and then fter you calculate this type of indicis because this type of indices is uh mainly it's uh we can easily identify what is the status about our Pro okay using this type of indices if you can also use it but Lite is also okay if you want to can also combine all of data set and also uh make this model it's also no problem so now we talk about the method suppose this type of things I want to apply and then we try to make the

methodology for the pro prediction using Google engine so first of all in this case uh we have to select our study area suppose you simply select your area and then further you simply choose the data collection in this time when you want to apply the machine learning model you must need the field data it it must need yeah okay field data we must need so in this time satellite data we can easily get from The landset Sentinel we can easily get it as well as also visitation indices or climate variables or soil

merer so this type of data we can easily get from the satellite data but field data it's mainly providing the ground to data for Pro field okay ground Ro data for the propop field it also need when you want to make the crop yield prediction map then you must need the CR e data okay for the ground C yes and soil properties and other relevant parameter we also need but most important is the pro yield okay so without Pro yield data we cannot apply the machine learning model and predict the pro yield okay yeah so this data

further we also use for training and validation this type of data we also use training and validation and third number step we try to uh mainly atmospheric correction geometric correction Cloud maxing so this type of image process pre-processing step we also do in here and then we try to combine different satellite data so in this time in this model I combine all of data Sentinel to laner and Modis to enhance the special and temporal resolution of the data set and then feature exraction okay so now

uh uh we the feature instuction calculate the indices nvi evi and climate variable mainly temperature or precipitation and soil properties mainly soil moisture or PS so this this is my feature suppose ndvi evi temperature precipitation moisture pH so this type of feature I want to input in my model and further I want to extract the information for pro field so this type of feature we just do it as well as uh we just suppose a vation indes we are just use the ndvi evi from satellite imy to access the vation health and biomass

then climate data mainly we are us the temperature data and environmental affecting for the propop growth okay temperature or precipitation rainfall data then soil data it also need okay and model development in this time uh we prepare a data set with feature extract from satellite images and ground to propop yield measurement okay so this ground TR propop field measurement we must need when you want to apply this type of things and then uh choose the relevant feature with the influence Pro field and further we try to choose a

machine learning model such as if random forest or support Mission so in this case I try to apply the random forest and then train the model using the uh data set which I created and further we also check uh using the cross validation technique to optimize the model performance we also check yeah and for the model evaluation we are just uh calculate the mean absolute error or root mean square eror or R square Val and filation and further we visualize the E prediction okay so this is the summary method okay so this same method

I already uh make one stud area uh in my code so let me show you the code and show you the project in this time I try to develop this type of things and this type of things in this time I not have this type of ground data so I take the randomly data okay suppose I simply take the randomly data C field data and and further I try to develop this type of things okay so now it's about that uh C eeld prediction map this type of map we can generate after including all of data set okay but when you want to have the

ground through data then you also get the more accurate result so in this time I develop this model um random data set just use the randomly some point suppose you can see I show you that suppose you can see suppose this type of point I just simply random data such SC data for this type of point and further I simply use this data for my C heeld prediction okay so now I explain this code suppose here you can see so first of all we just simply use the senel 2 satellite imag and further we try to suppose a specific

time for the year of 2023 and create the ndvi okay so this is the ndvi then also calc the ndvi for land 8 okay then mod so all of those thing we try to calculate also can the CHS mainly precipitation data we get from the chart satellite imag as well as we also use the er5 for the temperature okay we can get the temperature data and for the soil Grid or Central One data we also use in here okay and combine all of data okay we combine all of data for feature suppose mvi uh from The Sentinel nvi from landet then mod ndvi then

precipitation then temperature then soil moisture so these type of things we simply create combine because it's our feature and from that we just use this type of trading point so in this time uh here you can see in this time I take the randomly this type of point I randomly okay I take this type of Point randomly suppose for this coordinate I find out the yeld four ton or for any unit for four T unit suppose this coordinate I find out that 6 ton 5 T okay just simply put some coordinate and there put the

yield uh value okay from the ground from the ground this data we in this time I take the randomly and then make this model but when you want to work for the uh your own study area first of all you need this type of data suppose for this specific uh coordinate or a specific land what is the ELD value okay yeah it can be early or specific typ what is the ELD value okay so based on this value we just make the training point and further we are just uh prepare the training data set and also just use the random Forest

algorithm and further we are just make this machine learning model and we can check this uh visualize this type of map so in this Cas we find out this type of map now I explain this map so in this map here you can see when I click on here um okay because in this time it not added the Le when I add the Le then more better or if you want you can simply export this type of map as a GE file format and also make the map in AR map for your research Pap presentation in this case we find out this type of you

can see 3.1 to 7.9 so basically this our range we find out so 3.1 is the low field estimation and 7 is the high in this case I use this type of red color here you can see this type of red identify about the low Prof field estimation and this type of green color identify about the high this type of green ID the high estimation about the profield estimation this is the one kind of summary and in this time we are not use the accurate data but when you want to work for your own study area then first of all we need this type of data

suppose this type of coordinate for a specific location what is the pro field data it name yeah yeah uh I think for my research whatever I'm doing I don't need the original ground truth data I can explain them using the same way which you are explaining me I can tell them I randomly took like some points and then I test it okay so if you have this type of data then also more better then we can easily uh use this type of data and if uh is it related to the crop yield data yeah also crop yield number

how much crop yield we can get from this coordinate it also available yeah yeah yeah okay then it more better then you can easily apply this algorithm I hope we also get the more better result so in this time it's randomly randomly we display this type of data so I simply take some point and for this point I simply set some uh yield data okay but when you want to use the accurate data then you also get the more accurate result I hope yeah so in this case if you are interest this model so you can

just send me you can just send me your own data so basically this data including this type of information suppose a specific coordinate latitude longitude value as well as also there yield value for each coordinate then we also get the more better result okay yeah so you can send me this data further uh I will uh teach you how we can easily work with this data and also make the we prediction map okay uh I don't have any ground root data with me because my college didn't provide me any ground TR data they want me to search by

myself yeah you can also search so I actually I'm not sure like where I get it because the site that I have referred is Australian Bureau of Statistics abs.com yeah so now we this data we need because it uh useful for training data suppose this type of based on uh based on this values we uh exract the information and also make this uh gr eeld prediction okay so I will send you this uh methodology uh this doc file I send you you also read it then you also get the more better idea and as well as you

also try to find out this type of field data okay Pro dat area ground data then yeah uh then when can we connect

Class 21 

hello everyone welcome to the study Hax Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I will start the new series on hyperspectral remote sensing for sustainable agriculture this tutorial so basically this is our first tutorial on hyperspectral remote sensing for sustainable agriculture so today's session I will to discuss about that how we can easily monitor the C help hyperspectral remote sensing in Google Earth engine platform and we can EAS identify about that healthy vegetation and stress vegetation not

only for that we also monitor the soil properties crop stress factor contributing the more efficient agriculture practice using hyperspectral imagery and there's a lot of uses for potential sustainable agriculture due to its ability to capture detailed information across a wide range of WB length and traditionally multispectral sensor we capture data in only a few board bands but hyperspectral sensor collect data in hundreds of narrow band and that's why you will also get the more information

and you can easily uh precise the different types of monitoring such as plant Health soil properties Pro stress factor as well as also other okay so I will try to uh show you all of this process mainly how we can really use the hyper spectral remote sensing for sustainable agriculture today's session we discuss about that uh how we can easily uh use this imagary and make the crop Health monitoring as well as we also do for the soil condition analysis it also possible using the hyper spectral sensor can be used to access

the soil composition or sh label nutrient availability so as well as it also identify the poor soil Health then also farmers can apply the Precision agriculture technique minimize the F fertilizer use and the enhancing the productivity so this type of things I discuss the further topic as well as the Precision uh irrigation and crop classification and yield prediction okay as well as sustainable land management and weat and past uh detection as well as soil erosion and degradation monitoring so this type of

things forther Tut discuss in the meantime I discuss about that how we can eily uh monitor the crop help using hyper spectral imagery mainly in this time I use here the neon so basically different types of uh hyperspectral imagary we can easily use but all of hyper spectral imagary are not freely available in Google engine so for that uh when you want to work for any uh hyper spectral data in Google Earth engine it also better you simply download this imagary from other sources so different types of sources we can

easily get this type of hyers spectral data you try to download this type of data and further you can easily use this type of data in Google Earth engine simply upload this imagary and then further analysis we can easily apply so in this case I want to use this data so basically this is a directional surface reflectance and this data contain that there are 426 band okay we find out that total 426 band so basically it's one kind of project so this data set is uh available for the specific boundary not

for the whole world so but if you want download the neon data basically then for other study area so then you need to uh you can simply download this neon data as well as you can also contact here you can see that already provide some contact information you can simply contact and then you can if you need this imag NE one then you can simply uh get this type of image as well as you also try to read this type of documentation okay then you can easily get the more information about the neon hypers spectral imagery so basically in

this imag we find out the total 426 band okay 426 band and it's very high resolution you find out the 1 M so this is the 1 M resolution imag and here total 426 band so here you can see all of band information you can easily get from here and this band is the total 426 band we find out uh from this from here okay as well as the image properties we can get the image properties can see the unique visit number of neon site you can also filtering name properties some of uses okay so all of details you can easily

get it from this data catalog page if you want you can simp click on here then you can get easily get the developer data catalog base here you can see so basically this data set is the part of publisher catalog not managed by Google so you can simply contact with this email for any problem and also you can get the information from here and this data set basically available uh provider the neon neon full form is the national ecological Observatory Network so this is the full form of the neon and this

data set is available from 2013 to 2021 okay and this data set uh mainly we find out that only for the 1 M resolution and here contains total 426 band you can get all of information we can easily get it also bands also image properties okay so now I want to use this imagery and further I want to identify monitoring the pro Health how I find out that healthy vegetation how I find out the stress vegetation so basically for we can easily use the different types of algorithm in this case I want to use suppose ndvi very

normal normalized difference vegitation index and then calculate the uh ndvi part we calculate about that healthy vegetation and Estus vegetation so in this case here you can see this is the data and I already import this data in my code editor so this ited in this variable we can get the neon directional reflectance imagary here we find out that you can see different types of directional reflex imag here you can see the 2013 2014 uh okay we can get all of directionally just a simply print then

we can get all of those things and further I simply started suppose I want to start from the 2017 and I take for the one year suppose 2017 January to uh December okay so Advance one year it means that 2017 full year 2017 and I filter my image collection and then filter by the neon site so in this time I want to use it the grsm so it's the Great Smokey Mountains National Park so this is the short form so just I filtered this it one kind of metadata so I simply put here the neon site and I put at the grsm so grsm is

the Great Smokey Mountains National Park the short form okay so neon site you can also suppose you need the other site so for they can simply change the name and for what is your reason of interest you can easily uh put your name about that so here you can see the image properties so here we can get this type of things here you can see the uh unique visit number of the neon site okay so this is the unique visit of the neon site okay just put the neon site then we can easily get you need this data for

the other study area then simply put this uh name so in this time I just use here this data for grsm site main It's the Great Smokey Mountain National Park and then I simply create the Mosaic like mainly I take all ofes and create this composite okay and further I want to add the visualization so in this case I try to show here the red green and blue band for RGB so this is the Red Band and this is the blue band and this is the uh sorry this is the green band and this is the blue band okay and I gamma

correction for brightness so if you want also increase or decrease the gamma value it's not so you can see we can get this type of imager okay we can get for very high resolution so basically it's that only for the one meter pixel size is one meter so that's why when you want to use this type of imagery then we also get the more better information and this imagery contains total 426 more than 426 band okay and this type of band is stored the different types of information so that that's why this type

of hyperspectral imagary there's a lot of uses in the agriculture sector or other types of sector than multispectral so we got this type of imagary so for that I want to uh make the ndvi and further I want to stck about that uh healthy vegetation and also stack about the stress vegetation from this NVM so it's very normal we can simply calculate the ndvi using the formula of n infared minus red band from Neon High spectral imagary so simply I call my imagary and uh select the uh near infrared band and also select about

that uh Red Band okay around 665 nanometer and around 850 nanometer so this is the near infrared band and this is the Red Band and further calculate the ndvi so this very easy way we just calculate the ndvi near infared band Subtract with red band divided by near infared band plus red and then if you want to visualize the type of map suppose just click on the ndvi so now we can easily get this type of ndvi map for our study area so we got this type of imagary we can see this is the n map but this n map we generate from

hyperspectral imagery so now further I want to find out that healthy vegetation as well as also stress vegetation so in this case I want to consider the healthy vegetation is the greater than 0.8 I put here and less than 0.6 all of veg I consider as a stress veg vegetation so further I want to show the result for healthy vegetation as a green color we can easily get this type of green color so just I find out that this type of green color you can see it indicating about that healthy vegetation okay and when I open this less than 0.6

it the stress vegetation I consider so that's why you can get this type of red color it uh identify about the stress vegetation okay so basically this is the process so it's one kind of normal process to identify for C health and health monitoring suppose a stress vegetation and also identify about that healthy vegetation so now we got this type of map here you can see and this map is generated from hyper spectral imagary so here you can see we can easily find out this type of map so this

is the healthy vegetation we can easily get this type of place and this is that stress vegetation you can get the red color and this is our ndbi F we generate from uh neon hyperspectral imagary and this is the imagary for that okay just we use this imagary and then create type of things so basically this is the process to use the hyper spectral imagary and further uh next tutorial to discuss about that how we can easily monitor the soil condition analysis as well as Precision Irrigation then C classification he prediction and

sustainable Land Management we and pist detection and fil erosion and degradation monitoring so this type of things I try to use the hyp spectral imagery okay because when we use the hyp spectral imagery then we also get the more better result because hyperspectral imagery have a lot of bands more than 100 of narrow bands we can easily find out okay but mly spectral imagery we don't get this type of band so that's why when you want to use the hyper spectral data then we got the more better result

okay so if if you want to watch this type of Tut simply keep in touch with this YouTube channel as well as if you want to learn from my live training program so basically we also contact a live training program if you want you can also join my live training program and learn these type of things properly and our next bass class will be start from uh 20 September from next week we try to start our new bass and if you want to join this online training program you can simply contact in this WhatsApp number as well as contact with

this email okay and if you want you can also visit this website so basically from this website you can get all of information this website and all of information I already added in the video description you can simply check it and check all of course content mainly which you learn from the total s days online training program all of things I already added in this uh website as well as you also get it from my video description and when you want to join this online training program you can get some benefits such

as you can get the Coury certificate after submitting all of assignment you can got all all of materials mainly slide PDF you can get all of practice code okay as well as you also get the recorded class if you miss any live training program then you can cover using the recorded class as well as finally you can get the lifetime teaching support so it's very important as a beginners because when you want to learn the Google Earth engine for remote sensing analysis you face lot of problem so that's why we are also providing the

lifetime teaching support so when you face any problem in your code or any issue in the remote sensing you can get the support freely okay so if you want to join this online training program uh you can simply contact in this email as well as contact with this WhatsApp number and then book your seat and join our WhatsApp group and also Google Classroom so today is no more thank you for asking that step

Class 22

hello everyone welcome to the study Hax Institute of GIS andot sing today's session I will try to discuss a very important topic mainly agriculture Precision in remote sensing so today's session I try to discuss about that how we can eily crop growth tracking or crop growth monitoring using remote sensing technique in Google art engine I will try to explain all of things about this topic and how we can easily cracking the different types of states and for propop monitoring and also to discuss about that time St chart so

basically in this case I try to use the normalized difference vegetation index and first that we try to observe the different states how the vegetation is changed so let's go I will show you that practice code then I hope you can e get this idea how it will work you can see this is the code for that prob grow monitoring so basically first of all we uh we selecting a region of Interest mainly we select the crop land area and in this crop land area we try to make a polygon okay and then further we simply

import our Sentinel 2 satellite imagary in this case I use had the Sentinel 2 top of atmosphere reflecting satellite data and further I simply put my time period okay so this time period I try to put in here and I take all of uh imagery this is less than 10% cloud cover from this IM collection this is my imagary so this imagary I want to use for the monitor the crop growth for different stat so after that we simply calculate the ndvi so in this case I try to make the ndvi formula mainly near infrared

band minus near Red Band divided by near infared band plus red band so that's why I simply use a function normalize difference function and create the band of ndvi forther this Fun Band I simply connecting with my image collection this image collection I already created in here with senel 2 so just I simply connecting with this image collection with the um calculate ndvi I calculate in here you can see this my collection name I simply connecting with my uh function variable name calculate ndvi so

now this ndvi band is successfully connected with our image collection so now if I just simply check the time stre chart for this uh ndvi for this given time period so then I can get this type of time three chart so here you can see this is the time three chart so from the chart we can get this early stest so basically this is the early step basically it's a uh main Plantation St then we also get about that uh growing season so B basically in the growing season we find out that high nvi value

can see about the growing season and then we also get the uh late season mainly it's a harvesting time we find out the low nvi value so basically this is the way we can easily tracking our prop PL growth and we can EAS identify how what the status about that prop PL here you can see basically in the first step uh it's a early stest or it also called about the plantation St so just we find out the plantation suppose here you can see the uh 3rd February from 15 March okay after that it also

increasing the growing season we find out that this type of value we can see we can get the high NV value with this time period increasing and at the harvesting time it also incre decreasing nvi value so here you can see you can get it made to can get that made to can see the June so this time period so basically this uh time stage will be different for the different uh country base in this case I try to focus on Bangladesh study area so for that we are just simply uh displaying this type of early season or

mid season or late season so basically early season is the plantation season mid season is the growing season and late season is that harvesting season we consider in this time so far we simply create this type of time period for our different uh season for that Plantation stage or also put here that your growing season and then we also get about that harvesting season and further we also try to display this map type of map so here you can see we find out this type of map so basically in the early season

so this is the condition for the early season in a pro plant so in this time we find out that low vegetation low vegetation pixel value but that it's the just planted this type of uh prop or tree it just planted and further we find out that mid season so basically it's that identify about that uh growing season in this St we find out that vegetation increasing we find out that it increase the ndv Fel value and late season mainly it's our um indicating about that the harvested okay this type of things we can EAS

monitor their map as well as we can also monitor the time stre chart from here so we can easily create this of time stre chart and from this time stre we can easily uh tracking the crop growth as well as we also find out that different types of ests so this is the process using the ndvi to monitor the pro grow tracking do it you can also try to for your own study area also in the meantime I also give you an announcement for upcoming online training program so basically if you want to learn the complete online training on Google

engine for remote sensing and GIS analysis for beginners to advanced level so our next training program will be start from 20 September so now this registration is the open if you want to join this online training program simply you can contact in our WhatsApp number and also contact with this email so I already give all of information in the video description as well as if you want you can also contact um speak easily get all of information from this website also so here you can see all of details

for our upcoming online training program all of course content you can easily find out so basically this online training program we just focus for beginners who don't have any knowledge about the Google Earth engine or who don't have any knowledge about the programming language such as JavaScript or python so I hope after completing this online training program you are able to do any types of remote analysis very quickly and efficiently using the Google art engine so here you can see all of course content you try to read

all of course content for first day second day Third Day fourth day fifth day sixth day and seventh day so basically this our three hours live training program and one hours for the problem solving class okay so basically each day you get total four hours three hours for mainly live training and one hours for the problem solving and when you want to join this live training program you can get some benefit such as you can get that course e certificate after submitting all of assignment as well as you also get all of materials

mainly slide or PDF you can get all of practice code you can easily practice using all of practice code and you can get the recorded class suppose if you miss any live training program then you can easily cover using this recorded class as well as you also get the lifetime teing support so basically as a beginners when you want to learn the Google engine platform you face lot of problem so that's why we are also providing the lifetime teing support after completing this total 7 Days online training program when You Face

any problem regarding any issue in remote sensing or any issue in your court you can get the lifetime to support okay so if you want to join this online training program you can simply contact in this WhatsApp number as well as also contact this email and then further book your seat and if you want to get the 50% discount on this online training program so as soon as possible book your seat and join our Google classroom and WhatsApp group so today is no more thank you for watching that stay happy safe

Class 24

hello everyone welcome to the study Hax Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I will discuss an important topic mainly satellite remote sensing for agricultural application how we can use the satellite remote sensing for agricultural application today's session I I will try to explain everything so I hope if you are interest to the agriculture decision this is for you so let's go one by one I will explain all of those things mainly all of satellite remote sensing for agricultural application I will try to explain and

how we can e monitor the different types of agricultural Precision so let's go so first of all why use satellites for agricultural application there are a lot of uses for satellite for agriculture and application such as timely objective local to Global coverage so using the satellite imagary we can easily produce our all of pro or Pro ELD prediction everything we can e do using the remote technique as well as it also very important for observing areas that are inaccessible suppose some area you

cannot access then using the remote sensing or using the satellite technique you can easily accessible this type of region and then you can observe this area what is the condition for their CR what is the condition for their productivity rate so all of things we can do using the satellite remote sensing application we also do part the monitor the plant growth and estimate crop productivity using this remote sensing application and assess soil moisture and irrigation requirement is also very important for that agricultural

sector identify soil and crop characteristics and conditions as well as better forecast the precipitation and crop diseases and maximize crop yield while reducing the energy consumption avoid the was of farming in uh input such as water fertilizer and pesticide so basically this type of things is very useful for the agricultural application using the satellite or remote sensing technique so for that I also try to explain all of application practically I will show you that so now application for agriculture

and food security so basically crop monitoring so mainly phology crop area monitoring crop type monitoring crop condition eeld irrigated landscape flood Gro Frost accurate and timely reporting of agricultural statistics it's very important for the Agriculture and food security prop monitoring we can easily do using the remote sensing and satellite technique so farther I'll try to show you the Practical example about that and Pro forecasting so it's very important using the remote sensing

Technique we can easily forecast the accurate of yield of shortfall in prop production and food supply per region and Country and Market stability lower uncertainity and increase the transparency of Global Food Supply then reduce the price violity by anticeptic market Trend with the reduced uncertainity and humanitary Aid so monitor of the food security and high risk in region worldwide early warming of far famine as well as enabling the timely mobilization of international response in food Aid so for this type of

region it's very important for that application of our Agriculture and food security so now biophysical characteristics drive from remote sensing application such as profill content and above ground biomass as well as Leaf area index so Leaf area index is mainly one side Green Lea area per unit ground area in board leap canopis and half of the total knit liap uh surface area per unit ground area in the conifers canopis and photosynthetic primary production it's very important so measure of how much carbon dioxide

vegetation takes in during the photosynthetic minus how much carbon dioxide the Plants release during the inspiration respiration so it's very important about that photosynthetic primary production we can also monitor using the eming technique and also measure how much carbon dioxide vegetation takes during the photosynthetic okay so we can easily do it and then fraction of the absorb photosynthetic active radiation basically is the represent the ratio of the solar radiation that is absorbed by

the vegetation for photosynthesis used for assessing the impact of growth on vegetation so now talk about that satellites and sensor for agricultural application so basically here you can see this is the list about that so this type of satellite and this type of sensor we are used in the agricultural application and here you can see some product land surface reflectance evation land surface temperature precipitation soil moisture vegetation greenness structure so this type of product we can easily monitor using this type of

satellite and their sensor so here you can see this typ of satellite I will explain all of those things one by one such as Terra Aqua so NP p n o a a 2 lset 8 Sentinel 2 L set 8 and Sentinel 2 okay so International Space uh station land data simulation system Global precipitation measurement or CH data set soil mer active passive Cal one so all of you can see also that sensor about that so basically you can get the tra for the Modis equa for the Modis so you can see V so all of those things I will

try to explain and also you can see for the this you cannot do for that this type of sensor can not capable for doing the L reflectance okay also you can see the H transpiration so further let discuss all of these things one by one so first of all land surface reflectance so land surface reflectance it provide an estimate of surface spectral reflectance as measure at the ground level by accounting for atmospheric effect like aerosol scattering and thin cloud and useful for measuring the greenness of vegetation

which can then be used to determine the phological transition data dates including the short of season peak of preiod as well as also uh end of season okay and then input for generation of several land product vegetation indices biod directional reflectance as well as distribution of the function and thermal enomy Soo ice and fraction of absorb photosynthetic radiation and the leaf area index now we talk about that satellites and sensor for land surface reflectance for Modis so Modis is the cross

satellite and the full form of the Modis is the moderate resolution imagining spectr radiometer Modis and Modis instrument on two NASA Platform One is the C so basically it will be uh 992 to the present time another is the aqua it will be start from 2002 at to the present time is available for the TR and aqua the are two platform and the special resolution is the 250 M we can get that 500 M as well as 1 kilom so this is the special resolution about the modes T and EA for that land surface reflectance and

spectral resolution M we can get the 36 band ranging in the wavelength from 0.4 micrometer to 14.4 micrometer and temporal resolution we can get the data set for daily 8 day 16 day monthly as well as we also get the data for early and uh this data set is available from uh 2000 to present time 2000 to present time we can get this data and further Global coverage with the orbital gaps in the copics so here you can see some uh mod data also their product name also their special resolution and also their

temporal resolution so here you can see about that uh one is the surface reflectance so this surface reflectance we find out the it's a short name okay so mod 09 is a short name and we find out the temporal resolution you can see 250 M and 500 M and temporary resolution find out that daily and 8 Day land surface temperature you can see about that it name is the mod uh 11 we find out that 1,000 M daily and 8 we can get it land cover changes we can get the 500 m 8 and year you can get it then vation

indices you can see we can get the 250 M 500 M 1,000 M also you can see about that thermal anomal so you can see there a lot of product is available for the Modis and also their resolution and their temporal resolution so it's very important for agriculture monitoring using the satellite modus so now we talk about that how we can easily satellite and sensor for lens of reflectance it's called the PS so visible infared Imaging radio meter Swift so this is the full form of v i RS so basically this has two

platform one is that we can get the Sai National poar orbiting partnership and n o aa2 so this this is the two platform you find out and this special resolution is the 375 M to 750 m and spectral resolution is the 22 band we find out from here and then temporal resolution we find out the daily 8 day 16 day monthly and yearly data is available for that and it's available from 2012 to present time and it's Global coverage we can easily get the data for globally so now we talk about that satellite and sensor for land surface

mainly oi the oi mainly it's the lands set data set so basically land set 8 launched on February 11 2013 and this instrument is that oi so this full form is the operational land imager o i operational land imager and we find out that another is the thermal infrared sensor so oi and t s mainly op interal land imager and thermal infrared sensor this two sensor mainly useful for landset imagery and L data have been produced archived and distributed by the US Geological Survey USGS short name since

1972 and buils on 50 years of the landet program offering the longest continuous Global record of the art surface so what oi this things is that operational land imager for land set 8 this special resolution is a 30 m and spectal resolution M we find out that nine bands ranging the wavelength from 430 nanometer to 2,290 nanometer and temporal resolution for oi land set a we find out that 16 days and it's available from 2013 to present time and it's the global coverage we can easily get the

data set for the globally and now we talk about that another instrument it called the multispectral instrument so basically uh MSI so basically it provide for Sentinel 2A and Sentinel 2B so basically Sentinel 2 a launched on June 23 2015 and senel 2 be launched on 7 March 2017 and we can get the conion of two polar orbiting satellite in the same Sun qu orbit faed at 180° to each other and coration between the European commission and European space agency and European Union the floor it and S name is the multi-spectral

instrument so now we talk about the multispectral instrument so basically um this special resolution is a 10 m for BN 20 M for radies and short wave infed band and 60 M for atmospheric bands and spectral resolution is the 13 bands from vn2 short wave infrared one band in wave from 0.44 micromet to 2.2 microm and temporal resolution for the multispectral instrument is the five things so it will be available from year of 2015 to present time and label to a product provide the orifi bottom of atmosphere mainly boa reflected

and it's also Global coverage so now we talk about that HS so basically is the harmonized land set and senel to so H LS it's mainly useful for combine the land surface observation of OI and MSI okay into a single data set and it observation at 30 m resolution every two to three days okay and GED to a common pixel resolution map projection and tile and atmospherically corrected and Cloud marks so that's why you can get the very clear imagary when I use it and normalize to a common NE

view geometry vdf estimation so now we talk about the Evo Transportation so it's very important for the agricultural sector so sum of evaporation from the land surface Plus transporation in vegetation and high variable in space and time it will be changed region to region or space to space it will be changed and critical component of the water and energy balance of the climate soil vegetation interaction and extremely useful in monitoring and assessing the water availability dir condition and prop production so this is

very important factor for a transpiration using that we can easily assessing the water availability dirt condition and prop production so further I try to show you all of practical example and remote sensing has long been recognized as the most feasible means to provide the specially distributed Regional e information over the land surface and cannot be measured directly without with satellite instrument and model output are the different on many variable such as land surface temperature air temperature solar

radiation humidity Al soil condition and vegetation cover satellites and sensor for Evo transion mod we can also monitor the Evo transion using the mod so for that uh mod is uh mod 16 so basically this mod 16 level four EV transation and latent hit flux it provide 8 day interval or also put the yearly interval you can get it from this data set and special the 500 M for that and we can get the data set from year of 2001 to present time and it also Global coverage so now you talk about that uh equ stress uh how we can use the equ

stress to monitor the E Transportation so basically equ is that ecosystem space born thermal radiometer exent on Space Station the short from is the eess so equ instrument mounted at the International Space Station or ISS and measured the agriculture water exemption over the Continental us at the special temporal scale for Dra estimation and coverage mainly konas key biomas agricultural Zone selected flux net sites ITC and E stress basically these are full from uh ecosystem space Bond haral radiometer

experiment on Space Station uh basically it's available from year of 2018 to 9 July 2018 to present time andal 70 M okay and this is the spectral resolution 8 to 12.5 micromet and thermal resolution mainly variable depending on the ISS so now we talk about that l l mainly land data assimilation system how we can easily use the land data assimilation system and monitor the transportation so basically it's provide the model based ET data of which there is a global collection and not American

collection so g l d a s it's mainly Global collection and N LD it's m North America collection integrate the satellite and ground observation within the sophisticated numerical model based on water and energy balance method special find out the 0.25 de to and 1° and thermal resolution will be find out the three hourly and then daily monthly it will be present from 948 to present time now land surface temperature so basically land surface temperature prod product show the temperature of the land

surface in kelvin but we can easily convert into de Celsius also and different from the air temperature measure at provide the temperature of the W Riv is on the surface of the Earth such as bare sand ice snow cover area Leaf cover tree Canopy Roads it is and then useful for monitoring the change in the weather and climate pattern and used in agriculture and Water Resource Management to allow the farmers and decision makers to evaluate water requirement is very important for agricultural sector and then we talk about that Modis

how we can e use the Modis to monitor the land surface temperature basically Modis mod 11 is the land surface temperature and inity level three product available from both ra and aqua satellite is available and temporal resolution mainly we find out the daily 8 day or monthly special 1 kilm 6 kilm and 0.5° we can get it it's available from 2000 to present time and it's the global coverage and this a short product name mod 11 for that land surface temperature from Mod so now we talk about that how we can

EAS monitor the land surface temperature using the v i i r s so basically it's the visible infrared Imaging radiometer site so this is the land surface and imity level three product for that and temporary resolution daily or 8 day and special resolution 750 m and 1 kilm it will be available from 2012 to present time and Global cover and this a short form about that mod 16 A2 so now precipitation so precipitation is a key component of the water cycle and difficult to measure since rain and snow very greatly in the

both space and time so satellite provide the frequent and accurate observation and measurement of rain and so around the planet especially where ground based data are Spar radar or radiometer estimate the measure the intensity and variability of blatent heat uh heating structure and precipitation system agricultural Community needs to know the timing and amount of brain or snow to Pera the gr yield as well as also fresh water shortage affecting the irrigation and the production so now we talk about that how

we can easily monitor the precipitation using GPM GPM mainly Global precipitation measurement Mission so joint Mission between NASA and jasa and integrate the mark M satellite rriv for Global precipitation measurement product and this is the 0.1 into 0.1 grid okay 60° South to 60° North and it's available from 22 present time and it's the level three product for half hourly daily or monthly data set is available for the GPM and now we talk about the CH satellite imagery for precipitation so

basically the full form about the charts it's the climate haard group infared precipitation with the data and rainfall estimate from rain good and also satellite observation and deplo by the climate Hazard Center in mainly California UC see Santa Barbara and incorporate in house climatology we can get the res 0.05 resolution INF fored satellite data as well as it's available from the 1981 to near present time it's available so now we talk about that soil marer basically s map so mure active

paive so this is a full from about the SM map and then L band pive radiometer receive the energy narrow micro band 1.41 gahz and level four product assimilate the smap L band brightness temperature data into a land surface model generating two root Zone and surface soil moer and special resolution m 9 km about the data set temporary res 3 hourly and daily is available for that so now you talk about that L Des M land data simulation system how can they use to monitor the soil mure so use numerical model to integrate the

satellite information with the ground based data and output estimate of the soil marure temperature and Evo transpiration so now we talk about that satellite and sensor for the vegetation greenness so healthy vegetation absorb the blue and red light to fuel photosynthetic and also create the chlorophyll a plant with a more chlorophile will reflect more near infate energy than an unhealthy plant plus analyzing a plant a spectrum of both absorption and reflection in visible and near infared wavelength can

provide the information about the plant's health and productivity reflected near infared radiation can be sensed by satellite allowing the scientist to study the vegetation from space so now ndvi so it's one kind of you can see normalized difference vegetation index and based on the relationship between the rate and near infared wavelength basically Advantage is for that efficient and simple index to identify vited area and their condition reduce Sun angle Shadow and topographic variation effect enable

large scale visitation monitoring allowing comparison of different region through the time so nvi basically this is the formula about that near INF minus rate near in plus rate so here you can see about the example about ndvi being calculated from Healthy Green vegetation sensing the vegetation you can see about that so here you can see about that it uh near INF for uh we can get the 50% and 8% the further we can find out that we can get the 0.7 so it's identify about the healthy vegetation and it show

about the 0.14 it identify about that uh not mass healthy vegetation so now nvi application there are a lot of application such as uh for nvi such as phology then Ro indicator then visitation Health then carbon monitoring then Leaf area index all of those things that the lot of use for ndvi so now you talk about that for vegetation monitoring using the Modis so basically Modis Mod 13 is level three product for vegetation indices two primary vegetation layers retri from the daily and Atmospheric corrected and biod

directional surface reflectance one is the ndvi and another is the evi and a special resolution we find out the 250 M 500 M and 1 kilm and temporal resolution is available for 8 day 16 day monthly it's available from 2000 to present time now we talk about that uh visible infrared Imaging radiometer Suite how we can use to monitor the vegetation greenness basically it's the level three product um PNP and now provide the vegetation indices by the process of selecting the best Avail available pixel 16 day and

monthly acquisition period three primary vation layers is provide ndvi evi and evi2 we can get it from here and special resolution 500 m 1 km and 0.5° and temp ization will be 16 day monthly and it's available from 2012 to present time so now we talk about the oi so basically operational land imager this is the it also useful to reflex the drive the ndv are produced on the demand from USGS it can also be calculated using qgis you can also do it as well as Google art engine or other types of

things you can also use sotion 30 m tempor resolution 16 D and 2013 to present time and it's covered the global so now we talk about the MSI basically multispectral instrument so it's available for the senel 2 reflectance Drift from ndpa can calculate it using qjs syap or Google engine and then 10 m temporal resolution 5 p uh it's available from 2015 to present time and it also Global coverage so now we talk about the s data so basically s is the synthetic aperture rer uh this is the

advantage of that and also disadvantage about the S so basically Advantage is the nearly all weather capability suppose using the s data your region is very cloudy then you can easily get all of information okay so it's totally provide you with a very clear and neat and clean imag when you the s data nearly all weather capability okay day or night capability we can get the image for day or night using the s data penetration through the vegetation canopy and penetration through the soil minimal

atmospheric effect sensitivity to uh dtic properties liquid or frozen water sensitive to a structure and this advant is that information qu is different than Optical sometimes difficult to interpret andal effect uh mainly it's the graininess in the imagery effect of topography we can get some Shadow or other things about that land cover mapping Optical versus rter so basically in the optical energy reflect by the vegetation is dependent on the leaf structure pigmentation and moisture on the other hand microwave

energy is scatter by the vegetation depend on the structure size density or orientation and dtic properties of the Target Optical M product are available from visible to imparted weeland and consisting of the s bands of data but rather singles are typically only at a single W of each sensor Optical sensor only see surface stps because the canopy block the undro limiting the increase of the land cover and land use to only when this are correlated well with this characteristic at top top layer the

single can penetrate through the canopy and providing the information on the soil condition and ination State so now P creation basically it's uh one kind of function of web length uh is the primary factor in the web BL selection generally the longer wave length the you uh the greater the penetration into the target such as here you can see about that this type of penetration this type of band X band C band L Band 3 cm 5 cm and 23 cm and also there use the frequency band we can get the application for example so here you can

see basically you can see about the L band it's also useful for the agriculture Forest so marure also X band you can see agriculture ocean high resolution radar so you can see this type of frequency band and this type of application but there is frequency band we also use and P band here you can see biomas so pinut PR okay so there are the this type of use for the different types of frequency band and Now cal one So Cal one is Mission for that this is the link about the and constellation of the two

po orbiting satellite we can get the C band so basically C band here you can see basically C band used for the ocean and agriculture so that's why the Sal data there's a lot of uses in the agricultural sector so cand synthetic a rer and temporal resolution 12 L and we can get the dual polarization BB Plus V or SS plus HB 14 to present time it's available so now limitation of satellite data okay so first of all it's difficult to obtain the high spectral spal and temporary resolution with the same instrument then

Optical sensor cannot penetrate cloud or visitation cover which can be lead to data gaps or a decrease in the data utility special resolution while cross the resolution data provide a synoptic view the special resolution is to for of our field level assess temporal resolation mainly many satellite only pass over the same spot on Art every 3 to 5 days and sometime as uh seldom every 16 plus days spectral resolation basically multip instrument observe the reflected and imited light in the board W length lens for the

particular band with a limited number of pens and large amounts of data exist in a various file format file size and from multiple source and knowledge of data and tools is required to work with satellite data so basically this is the things I will try to explain about that uh how we can use the remote sensing in agricultural sector uh this is the theory part but further I also try to explain about all the Practical part how we can use these type of things and practically we can do it okay so today is no more so further

session I also try to explain lot of things about that how we can EAS use the satellite remote sensing for agriculture application then I hope you can learn lot of new things in the meantime if you want to join my online training program for GIS or remote sensing learning purpose you can simply contact in my WhatsApp or email you can get all of information in the video description further if you are interested to learn the the Google engine or gising or any other application for satellite or GIS then

you can simply contact and further you can either join my live training program today is no more thank you for watching that stay happy stay safe

Class 25

hello everyone welcome to the study hack Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I will try to discuss about that evaluation of Cal model for Io Transportation mapping using Google engine Cal is very important model to monitoring the iapo transpiration and iapo transporation is one of the major parameter in the hydrological cycle and Cal mainly is the full form is that surface energy balance algorithm for land using the Cel model we can easily monitor the AO Transportation using land set or Sentinel

imagery so here you can see I already created some process about that Cel we need the EO transformation we created finally use the Laten heat plugs or soil Heat plux and need uh radiation Al and ndvi so all of those things how I can create and all of the strum I will try to explain and further I also show you that how we can e work with Google art engine to mapping a transformation using Cel model Cel it's mainly surface energy balance algorithm for land and it's a image processing model that estimate

actual Evo transformation by solving the term of the surface energy balance D from the visible near infared and the thermal infared band of the electromagnetic spectrum so here you can see about the figure so here we can get that you can see basically we can get the input so this is the rn rn is indicating about that net radiation so it's the net radiation and further we can get that three consumer so one consum it's called about that H here you can see about that so basically it's called

about the sensible heat flux to the air and also you can see about the G so basically it's the soil heat flux and also you can see about that e e mainly transation okay so now from this U things we can easily consider about that here you can see mainly RN is that net or total radiation we can get and further we can get the three consumer one is the Ace another is the ET another is the G so from these things we can easily get it this type of equation here you can see so total radiation is equal

to Laten heat flux and then we also get about the H so basically the sensible heat flux to the air and G is the soil heat flux and from this equation we can easily identify about that it so it we can get about that you can see just we can get that net radiation substract with soil heat flux and substract with sensible heat flux then we can easily get the ET so basically this is the Cel or Surface energy balance algorithm and there's a lot of use for the agriculture Precision or other types of hydral cycle

because AO transportation is one of the major parameter in the hydrological cycle so that's why it's very important to learn so session I will show you that how we can EAS work with Google engine and then apply the Cal model to mapping the EV for transation so let's go one by one I will explain all of those things so just let me open and you can get about that uh reference paper so here you can see about that this is the reference paper about that evaluation of C model uhing in Iraq using the remote s

GS technique so you also read this paper then you can get the lot of idea about that c model and how it will be work all of this things you can easily get from here so basically here I already write the code look like that here you can see so basically in this time I already added all of uh layer one by one so I will show you that one by one so here you can see so basically first of all I calculate the ndvi for my stady area and then further I try to calculate about the AL so basically it's also need for

that calculation so I try to calculate about the Ala so I can get this type of things the Ala and then we try to calculate the r net radiation RN so it's very important for the RN which is the net radiation we can get this type of net radiation layer and then we also calculate about the soil heat flux mainly G parameter we can get this type of soil heat flux and we can get that sensible heat flux and then we talk about the latent heat flux we can get uh this type of result for the latent heat

flux as well Plus finally we are just applying the formula you can see this type of formula which is RN minus G minus C then we can get that e mly EO transation and finally we can get the EO transation and convert into millim per day so here you can see we can get this type of things so basically in this time this type of blue color identify about that high concentration of the EV transpiration per day and this identify about that low concentration about that okay so this is our final um hi transformation map for using the cell so

in this time here you can see this is the code I also show you this code then you can easily uh get it so here you can see about that so here you can see we can already in this time we just use that that um landet 8 satellite imagy so basically landet 8 satellite we are just uh filtering and also applying the pixel we can get about that your reprojected exale value and then we try to get this type of constant you can see about that L heat of vaporization Jew per K and so flux fraction it's also

constant and further we calculate about the ndpi and also calculate about the AL we just use the equation and try to calculate about the Al and further we try to calculate about that you can see the coming slot radiation okay so all of those thing we try to calculate mainly it's the RN it's indicating about that your net radiation or total radiation we try to calculate in here it also need and then we try to calculate about the soil heat flux mly G Factor so after calculating the all of factor we are

just uh we also sensible heat flux and further we try to calculate this type of uh heat flux sensible heat flux and then we try to calculate about the latent heat flux Okay so lat heat flux here you can see what is the formula you just put in here so Laten heat flux equal to put here the rn rn mainly it's our total varation substract with G and substract with h so basically you can see this is the equation about that so here you can see G substract with a so this is the total radiation you can get it and then

we can uh substract with mainly soil soil heat flux and further we also try to substract with your another parameter which is indicating about that Ace H is mainly indicating about that your sensible heat flux so here you can see this is the formula about the ET equal to we just apply the same formula also in our Cod here you can see the total or net radiation substract with your soil heat flux and substract with sensible heat flux then we can easily put the latent so forther this uh latent heat flux we are just um make the Evo

transformation from here so we can get this type of map from here and further we just um use this map we can identify where is the high concentration about the transportation and so basically there's a lot of method to estimating the APO transformation so today's session I'll try to explain about the Cal but if you want to interest to the learn more details about that simply contact in my WhatsApp number also contact with my email then you can easily join my online live training program and lot of things about that

okay so currently if you are interested to join my live training program you can simply uh check my website so you can simply go to my website so basically this is my website link and further from this website you can easily check all of upcoming training program so basically our next best training program will be start from that uh 19th July so you can simply check about this all of details so basically this class will be start from the 19 July and now this reg is the open okay and first and will get the 50%

discount so now if you want to join this with 50% discount as soon as possible complete your registration and book your set so this is the total 7 Days online training program and each the total 4 hours basically this class will be take from here you can check your local time from this uh link I already added this video on this website link I already added in the video description simply check it all of details also you can see about that all of course content so basically this course content I mainly

Focus the beginners who don't have any knowledge about the Google engine or remote sensing or who don't have any anal about that coding so I hope after completing this total 7 Days online training program you also get that any kind of remote sensing analysis very quickly and efficiently using the Google platform and you also get the some benefit when you join this online training program you can get the courses certificate after submitting all of assignment okay you can get all of assignment you can get the certificate

you can get all of materials mainly slide PDF you can get all of practice code as well as you also get the recorded class so if you miss any live training program then you can easily C using that um recorded class as well as you also get the lifetime teaching support so it's very important because as a beginners when you want to start the learn with Google Earth engine platform you face lot of problem and that's why you need the continuous support So for getting this support you can get the lifetime teaching support

after completing the total 7 Days online training program so if you want to join this online training program simply contact in this WhatsApp number or also contact with this email then further uh book your seat and join our upcoming online training program so today is no more thank you for watching that stay happy stay safe

Class 26

hello everyone welcome to the study hacks Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I also try to discuss a very important topic on agriculture Precision mainly today I talk about that how we can easily monitor the soil organic carbon from ndvi involves using field data in Google engine so I will show you that all of appro all of method I hope you can easily do this type of analysis and then further you can easily monitor the soil organic carbon so soil organic carbon uh is a key indicator of soil Health High soil

organic carbon level generally indicate the fertile soil with good structure High nutrient content and better water retention and healthy soil promotes the robust plant growth and increase the crop yield so that's why it's very important for the agriculture prision so in this time Al discuss about that how we can easily monitor the soil organic carbon so first of all we need to collect the Su field data okay so we collect the field data mainly we collect the soil organic carbon data as well as

we also collect the some ndvi data as at the same geolocation from our field so we can easily get the ndvi data from our satellite imag if you want you can use at the landset or Sentinel imag and then first further for the same geolocation we also collect the soil organic carbon data from the field then we can take the Laboratory test and part identify about that soil organic carbon so you can take the some field data from your prop plant or your specific boundary then further we just try to apply the linear fit

model OKAY using that python we try to find out the linear fit using the linear regression model and then further we calate about that intersect value as well as calculate about that slop value from that we can easily indicating about that in uh Google Earth engine and then use the coefficient from the linear model in G to extimate the soil organic carbon so let's go I will try to explain all of those things practically then I hope we can easily get this idea how we can easily monitor that soil organic

carbon so first of all we have to need some analysis in that Google cab so basically here you can see this is my field data basically this field data has the two one is the ndvi ndvi mainly this type of data I generate from that Sentinel to satellite imary and this is my another uh ground true data main soil organic carbon you can see different uh ndvi value you can find out the different different soil organic carbon value so this is my two data so this two data I just further apply a model basically linear regression fit model

between that ND VI and soil organic carbon and further we just try to print that intercept value and coefficient value so basically intercept value you can see this is The Intercept value we find out that intercept value as well as we also get about the coefficient value so basically this two value we need when you want to estimate that soil organic carbon based on the ndvi values and f that we can see about that uh our chart about that linear regression model for soil organic carbon chart we can get

this type of things here you can see this is the ndvi value and this is the soil organic carbon value we also make this type of linear regression chart and here we can easily get the intercept value and coefficient value this coefficient value and this intercept value further we also apply in Google Earth engine and then we monitor the soil organic carbon so here you can see I already write the code look like that here I can get this type of result so basically here you can see this is my ndvi map okay and this is my organic

carbon map so here we can easily find out that this type of things identif this type of color is identify about that high concentration of that soil organic carbon this is the unit about that gram per kg El you can see about that this is the low in indicating about the low and this type of color identify about that Medium okay you can simply see the color gradient and F can identify for that different types of things as well as if you simply click on here and then you can simply check the value supp click on here now we can

easily get this type of value here you can see we can easily get what is the value for a specific coordinate what is the ndv Val we can find out the 0.3 and what is that soil organic carbon we can get the 78.6 but they can simply click on here what is the value about that and what is the ndvi value we can also generate from here here you can see we can get that this is a 0.3 and what is the soil organic carbon we can easily get from here so this is the process so in this time first of all we try to calculate

this type of intercept value and coefficient value this intercept value and coefficient value further we also apply in our model in Google engine so basically here you can see in this time I just put here this type of value so this is my uh intercept value also you can get this type of um slop value okay then we simply multiply with our ndvi result okay then we can easily predict the full ndvi value so here you can see this is the process about that soil organic carbon estimation so further we also try

to discuss about the more uh content about the agriculture phis so you can easily check all of details from my upcoming online training program about that agricultural physician from my website link here the website link I already attach in my video description simply check it and further if you want to learn more details then simply contact in my WhatsApp also contact with my email then you can learn all of those things okay so today is no more thank you for watching that stay happy stay safe

Class 27

hello everyone welcome to the study hack Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I also try to talk a very important topic on agriculture Precision basically in this part I also talk about that monitoring cor water needs using AP transation in Google engine how we can use the a transation using remote sing technique and then we can easily find out that cor water need monitoring cor water needs using remote sensing in Google Earth engine is a vital achievement efficient of water management enhancing the cor

health and yield and saving the cost so today's session I also talk about that how we can easily monitor the corop water needs using AO transpiration and also make the temporal chart of water needs using H transpiration I will explain all of things from step by step then I hope you can easily learn all of details about that monitoring prop water needs using eation in Google engine so let's go so first of all EO transpiration EO transpiration is the sum of evaporation of from the soil and

transportation from Plants it's the key parameter in determining crop water needs and iapu transmission data can be drived from the remote sensing platform using various algorithm and model so basically uh we are use the different types of model to identify the Evo transation result so here you can see this type of model panman moned equation then surface energy balance algorithm for land Cel as well as also mapping the Evo Transportation at the high resolution with the internalized calibration method so this type of

method we are also use and then we can easily find out that Evo Transportation so I also discuss about the later all of method one by one how we can easily use all of method and monitoring the Transportation so in this session I talk about that surface energy balance algorithm for land using the Cel this algorithm we try to use and then find out that EO transpiration and then we also uh monitoring the corop water needs and also calculate the temporal chart so here you can see this one kind of map here we can already create it we

can get this type of uh prop water needs even it is the millimeter so you can easily get it you can see this type of prop or this type of vegetation need the more water okay we can get red color identify and also you can see about this type of yellow color it's mainly identify about the low water needs and also you can get this type of color you can get that middle or we can easily get the from this color bar we can easily identify about that the sequence of the corop water nits and also you can see

about that this is the time Ser chart about that basically you can get this type of Time series chart from where you can identify about that when the EO transpiration is the high when the the low so basically in the growing season we find out that high EO transpiration value and the vegetative session and rening session we can get that low EV transporation value so from the chart we can also identify about that water needs be doing that in the growing season of the plant or crop but for that um this

time we can also see about that low in the vegetative phase and also reping phase we find out that low EV potention value but here you can see about that we can get the growing season at that high Evo Transportation value okay so let's go we discuss about the code one by one and it's very important for the different purpose such as agriculture Precision agriculture uh cost saving as well as also it also use for the enhance the corop health and yield monitoring and also water conservation efficient

water management so there are the lot of uses to use this um technique to monitor the water prop needs so let's take the Practical example just I explain one by one so here you can see I already write the code look like that so it show about that our math this is our Pro field we can get here you can see this is our study area so for this study area this it's one kind of corop plan so in this corop plan we try to find out that um calculate that average a transformation using the C method so here you can see

this type of result here you can see basically this type of red CL identify about that High crop water needs or high value of that uh in transpiration you can find out as well as you can see the yellow color identify about the low and we can easily find out that color gradi and we can easily get the result for every color we can easily get for the result as well as also you can see about that time chart basically this time chart we also created in here this time chart so just I open it so from here you can easily get this

type of result for Theo transpiration when it be high low we can also download the data also from here so basically this is the process uh we can easily use this type of process and we can easily monitor the crop water needs okay for any agriculture field but we can also apply the different types of algorithm such as you can see about that uh it's different types of algorithm such as span man uh mation surface energy balance algorithm for land or mapping the transation at the high resolution

with the internal calibration so this type of method we also use and further we also calculate the A transation and then further a transation you easily calculate using the Google engine as well as we can also make this temporal chart when the high or low when the water needs the high you can easily get it from here okay so if you want to interest to learn the lot of things about the agriculture Precision then you can simply contact with me you can easily contact in my WhatsApp also contact in my email I easily get all of

information from my website simply go to this website I already give you this website link in the video description simply check it and further you can simply check all of upcoming training schedule you can easily check it all of upcoming online training program when it will be start and further if you want to learn about the more information uh suppose pist agriculture using remote sensing in Google just click on here then you can easily get all of details about this online training program so

now this online training program is available only for the private training is available you can easily join privately and you can EAS learn all of those things from beginners to advance level so here you can check all of course content basically for first week second week third week all of details you can easily get from here and further if you want to join this online training program simply contact in this WhatsApp number and also contact with this email then you further you can easily get all

of information you can join all of those things okay so you can easily get all of those things from our website all of course all of course content all of details about that you can simply check from our website and then you can easily register our upcoming online training program okay so today's no more thank you for watching that stay happy stay safe

Class 28 

hello everyone welcome to the study Hax Institute of GIS and remote sensing today I also try to discuss a very important topic mainly how we can easily do for the CR yield prediction with remote sensing data so basically it's one kind of our training program on agriculture Precision so basically in this online training program we also try to discuss lot of topic for agriculture physici so today's session I also discuss about the cow field prediction with remote sensing data in Google engine so I hope after

completing this tutorial you are able to do for any c Feld prediction using the Google engine platform I will explain all of method I hope you can easily get it so basically in this time if you want you can use that the machine learning algorithm and you can easily predict the grow field as well as if you want you can also use the linear Reg ation and you can also predict the growth field so in this session I will show you that linear regression model how we can easily use and then predict the grow

field further tutorial to discuss about that machine learning model how we can easily use it and further we also make the C field map as well as if you want you can also use at the Deep learning model to estimate the pro field so further to discuss about also about the Deep learning to get all of those things simply keep in touch with my YouTube channel then you can easily get all of these things so today's session we discuss about the linear regression and then how we can easily use the linear

regression model to predict the grop yield so first of all we have to know about that what is the crow field data in agriculture so basically Pro field prediction refers to the estimate of the amount of the produce that a particular agriculture parel or region is expect to the yeld during a given a green so basically it's one kind of information the amount of the crop pred by the farmer or farmer group it include the amount of the group harvested per Hector land this can be measured in ton or any other unit we can easily measure

depending on the crop so it's also provide the uh information about the total amount of the prop and here you can see basically in this time we can easily find out that growing season basically prop yield prediction it refers to the estimate of the amount of the product or crop in that particular growing season from the Indi time three chart of our prop plan we can easily identify about that three phase one is the vegetative phase another is the reproductive phase another is that reping phase so basically this

reproductive phase is also called about the growing season in this time we find out the peak of ndvi value highest peak of the ndvi value so these things we can consider as a reproductive phase or growing season and when we do part the crop field prediction basically we select this time period for that uh estimating the amount of the produce that a particular agricultur u in the F during a given a growing season so it's very important about that first of all you have to find out that growing season

we can easily make the ndvi chart and further we can easily find out the growing season uh from our time three chart so in this time we can EAS find out the three phase one phase is the vegetative phase another is the reproductive phase another is the repining phase and what is gr yeld prediction basically cop yield prediction is the process of estimating the potential of uh expected yield of a specific crop for a given area and a growing season so it's very important about the growing season first of all we have to know

about that how we can easily make find out the growing season from our ndvi map or in our prop plan and it involves the analyzing the various factors such as weather condition soil characteristics gr genetics and management the practice to make the informed uh prediction about the likely Harvest so all of uh parameters is also important for that uh gr yield prediction further also discuss about the more about the other Prime uh climate condition or weather condition such as rainfall temperature soil

characteristics then you can also get that more better map so in this tutorial just only focus on the ndvi So based on the ndvi I try to find out what is the condition of the crow field okay but but if you want you can also add add the more parameters such as different types of weather condition or soil condition or soil characteristics prob genetics so this type of data we are also including in our Pro he prediction model and farther we can also make that more better profield prediction but in this

session I just talk about the DV forther next tutorial to discuss about that how can add the more climatic data or soil data or cor genetics data so this type of things how we can EAS add and further we also predict the crop field so let's go also you can see about that it's also about the regression linear regression model it's one kind of Y = to MX plus C this our linear regression equation so using this equation we are just find uh find out the pro field so here you can see this is show about the yeld equal to

mx + C so here mainly m is that our solve value and MX mainly it's our ndvi value and C mainly it's our intercepted value so basically in this time I based only for the ndvi and and predict the crop yeld so that's why I just consider for the ndvi further when I work for that more parameters such as different types of climate data soil data crop genetic data then we have to apply the multi- regression model then you can easily get that more accurate predict of the yeld so in this time we can get this of

things here you can see one kind of example it show about that yeld equal to 2.7 here 2.7 is our Sol value slope value you can get from here and then further ndvi is mainly it's our x value which is mainly independent and Y yield is the y y is mainly dependent variable and also you can see plus c c mainly 0 14 it's our intercept uh intercept value we find out from here and further here we find out the 0.7 it's our ndvi value and when I find out the 0.7 what's the yeld how many y I find out the 2.03 ton

okay we find out the uh yield value also 2.03 T so this is one kind of random data so basically we can easily get the pro field historical data we can easily find out from the different sources so we can easily use the different types of historical prop data for that this type of data we are also consider in our model and then we can easily make that linear regression model and create this type of prediction for that making the different types of prediction okay but when you want to add the more parameter

such as weather data climate data soil characteristics data or any genetics data then we have to apply the multin regression then we can also get the more better Pro yield prediction so now let's check about the code I will explain all of those things one by one so here you can see this is our um map for the crop field prediction we can easily find out that this type of R identify about that there is no crop it show it one kind of barel land or water body or other things but it not about the crop land so basically this type of

green color and yellow color is about that prop pl we can see about the leion about that so prop T per Hector unit we calculate this type of things in here so you can get this type of map so basically it's generate from that ndvi okay so in this time we predict the C ELD depend on the ndvi because uh if you want to can also add the more parameter for I also discuss about that in this time I just show you that how we can easily use it for that and also you can see about that uh this is our uh study

area so this is our cor plan study area we select for that and further we are just um put here our satellite imager so in this time I use here the Sentinel 2 satellite Imager okay so from the Cal two Satellite IM we can get that um 10 into 10 100 m square area we can easily find out what is the condition for the crop land uh yield prediction you can easily get it from here and after that we just create that ndvi map so we can get this type of NV map and then using the linear regression we can get predict

for our uh crop yield prediction so basically here you can see about that all of the chart we create in here so basically uh here you can see this is the the code about that first of all you simply import your study area and then further filter your uh image collection so in this time I just use here the Cal two image collection and further I create the ndvi for my study area and then you can see this is the ndvi time three chart so from this time C CH we can easily find out that the vegetative

phase also reproductive phase and repainting phase we can easily find out so basically this phase it's called the rep um repr reproductive phase okay or growing phase you can see June 19 and up we can see about that uh we can find out uh this p uh this time it show about that uh September 2 so this is our growing phas you can simply select your growing phas and further you try to make the pro field or Pro field prediction in the growing season for the specific Pro Plan so this is the time period we can

simply put in here so in this time I put the time look like that here you can see so it's 20 23 20 Mars from uh 7 October for this time and further we also make this ndvi time three chart and I can get the sample data so basically you can see this is one sample data this sample data it's one kind of historical data for this study area so you can easily collect the sample data for the different sources okay so you can see this is the sample data basically this in the sample we can find out the two things one is that ndvi

and also is about that e data so so 0.4 what is the data how much St you can see about the another is that uh it show about the 0.5 and Val then I can get that how much St for E 1.5 so it's one kind of our data and using this data we can create the yal to MX plus C so here M value mainly slop we find out the 2.69 n and we can find out that c value which is The Intercept value here you can see intercept see value 0.14 so this our intercept value and part we also calculate about the predicted uh yeld

statistic value we can get we can get that it calculated that par square area mly per square area we find out that 1.01 ton we can find out this uh and if can you also calculate the hector unit that is no problem in this time it show about that per Hector area how much um t uh propop yield we find out that 1.01 average 1.01 ton and further we also try to calculate make this type of you can see based on the ndvi what is the predict of the yield we can get this type of linear regression chart so from

this chart we can easily get it all of predicted value and if you want you can also use it to predict for other future uh he prediction but in this time we are just consider only for the one factor only for the ndvi but when you want to add the more factors such as uh temperature data then climate data weather condition data as well also crop genetic data data so this type of soil uh Properties or soil characteristics data then we also get the more better Pro prediction map so in this time I'll

show you that only for the ndvi but further if you want you can also get uh this type of other layer you can also add and also apply these type of things okay so if you have any question or doubt you can simply contact with me and if you want to join this live training program on the agriculture phation then you can simply contact in my WhatsApp number also contact in my email then you can easily get all of information and you can easily join my online training program only for the agriculture Precision so in in agriculture Precision

we also try to describe all of those things for the agriculture in modern technology how we can e use the gis and remote sensing in the Agriculture and further we can do for the different types of analysis such as Pro eeld prediction Road monitoring as well as also we can do for that uh different types of things we can easily do in the gis and remote sensing in the modern technology you can get all of those things in my uh website you can easily get all of those upcoming online training program when it will be start

or if you want you can also join my some private training program you can see all of list in here I also added this website link in my video description you can easily find out and then you can easily uh check all of details for our upcoming online training program and then you can join okay so as well as if you want to join my upcoming online training program you can see this is the one kind of complete online training on Google engine for REM sensing and GIS analysis for beginers to advance level

so this class will be start from the 19th July okay now regist the open if you want to join this online training program then you can easily learn all of those things you can Al check the course syllabus from here you can see you can easily get all of course syllabus so basically it's total 28 hours online training program and uh when you want to join this online training program you can get lot of benefits such as you can get that course e certificate you can easily verify this course certificate

from our website as well as you can also get all of materials mainly slid PDF you can get all of practice code okay and if you miss any uh live session you can easily get the recorded class and you can also get the livetime teaching support it's very important as a beginner because when you want to learn the Google engine platform you face lot of problem so that's why you need the continuous support so that's why we're also providing the lifetime teing support okay so and when you to complete

all of assignment you can easily get the py certificate and this Coursey certificate you can simply verify from our website you can easily get that verify from our website you can get this type of certificate after you can easily get the verification also you can download the E certificate from our website okay so this is the process for getting the certificate from our website and uh when you complete all of assignment you can easily get it and you can easily get it all of information from our website um and you can also get

that upcoming training session when you will be start we can get all of information of the upcoming training so you'll check all of those things and if you want to join or uh online training program simply contact and then you can easily get that for better anding uh training support okay so today is no more thank you for watching that stay happy




